# Chapter 1. Introduction

This specification contains recommendations and guidelines for engineers to follow to create modules for the expansion connectors on the NVIDIA® Jetson Orin™ Nano carrier board. As well as understand the capabilities of the other dedicated interface connectors and associated power solutions on the platform.

The Jetson Orin Nano carrier board is ideal for software development within the Linux environment. Standard connectors are used to access Jetson Orin Nano features and interfaces, enabling a highly flexible and extensible development platform. Go to https://developer.nvidia.com/embedded/develop or r contact your NVIDIA representative for access to software updates and the developer SDK supporting the OS image and host development platform that you want to use. The developer SDK includes an OS image that you will load onto your Jetson Orin Nano device, supporting documentation, and code samples to help you get started.

The Jetson Orin Nano carrier board supports all the Jetson Orin Nano Series and Jetson Orin NX Series modules.

> **Caution**: ALWAYS CONNECT JETSON ORIN NANO and ALL EXTERNAL PERIPHERAL DEVICES BEFORE CONNECTING THE POWER SUPPLY TO THE AC POWER JACK. Connecting a device while powered on may damage the developer kit carrier board, Jetson Orin Nano, or peripheral device. In addition, the carrier board should be powered down and the power removed before plugging or unplugging devices or add-on modules into the headers. Wait for the red power VDD_IN LED to turn off or wait for 5 minutes if your system does not have a power LED. This includes the Jetson Orin Nano module, the camera connector, the M.2 connector, and the other expansion headers.

The Jetson Orin Nano developer board contains ESD-sensitive parts. Always use appropriate anti-static and grounding techniques when working with the system. Failure to do so can result in ESD discharge to sensitive pins, and irreparably damage your Jetson Orin Nano board. NVIDIA will not replace units that have been damaged due to ESD discharge.

> **Note**: The developer kit carrier board has been modified to only support 5V to the module. The MODULE_ID signal is not pulled up on the carrier board. This means that regardless of the capability of the module, VDD_IN will be 5V only. Custom carrier boards can still be designed to support 5V and 19V and use the MODULE_ID to identify a 5V vs. 19V Input. Orin NX 40W (MAXN_SUPER) is NOT supported on the developer kit carrier board.

Jetson Orin Nano Developer Kit Carrier Board Specification SP-11324-001_v1.3 | 1