Intermediated and efficient financial services that can interoperate with legacy finance.

Figure 4: Open vs Closed Virtual Worlds (Source: EUBOF Metaverse report,2022)

This debate mirrors the evolution of the web from Web 1.0 (Read-only) to Web 2.0 (Read-write) and now to Web 3.0 (Read-write-own), where blockchain and cryptocurrencies are pivotal in transitioning from centralized to decentralized web models.

Open, permissionless blockchains are crucial in shaping the open Virtual Worlds, offering the most viable solution for establishing versatile systems for the internet's future. In the open Virtual Worlds, key operations and decision-making processes are decentralized, potentially leading to self-regulated cities or districts with their specific policies, rules, and access criteria. Blockchains offer the flexibility to integrate with current Web 2.0 applications, whether financial or otherwise, and can support the launch of centralized apps or those with centralized elements, like user interfaces. This integration emphasizes the enhancement of user choice.

The European Union Blockchain Observatory & Forum (EUBOF) Metaverse report provides an in-depth explanation.

5.4 CBDCs (Central Bank Digital Currencies)

Currently, the broader population, which includes individuals and businesses, can possess money in two primary ways:

- In physical form, such as coins and banknotes. These are issued by central banks and represent the sole type of central bank currency accessible to the public.
- Electronically, as seen in accounts maintained with commercial banks and similar regulated entities. These entities can then keep a portion of their funds (referred to as reserves) in accounts with the central bank.

"{.} the public cannot open accounts directly with the central bank today or hold any form of central-bank-issued eMoney. A Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) would change that." (Gia glis G. 2020)

"A Central Bank Digital Currency, as the name suggests, is a form of digital money that is issued by a central bank. For a value medium to be considered a CBDC it must fulfill both requirements simultaneously (Cœuré et al., 2020). By this definition, CBDCs are not an entirely novel concept. Commercial banks in Europe, the US, and most of the developed world are required to hold a minimum amount of cash, as well as deposits with the central bank in the form of reserves. These reserve accounts fulfill the definition of a CBDC presented above, as they are digital representations of value, recorded as a liability of the central bank and an asset for the commercial bank."

EUBOF (2021), Central Bank Digital Currencies and a Euro for the Future

CBDCs differ fundamentally from decentralized cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin or Ethereum. Unlike these cryptocurrencies that operate on decentralized networks without centralized control, CBDCs are centralized digital currencies issued by central banks. They represent a claim against the issuing central bank. This interest in CBDCs by various central banks globally is driven by factors like the increasing popularity of digital

Page 24 | 33