Blockchain for beginners

EUBlockchain
Observatory and Forum

Regarding the Stablecoin Regulatory Framework, in August 2023, the MAS completed a regulatory framework for stablecoins, which marks a further step in strengthening Singapore's regulatory approach to digital currencies. The MAS has previously released new guidelines that require cryptocurrency service providers to retain client funds in a statutory trust by the end of 2023. The guidelines urge consumers to be vigilant and not deal with unregulated entities, 'as they risk losing all their assets'.

Hong-Kong

Hong Kong adopts an open stance towards cryptocurrencies, permitting unrestricted trading and usage of digital assets without levying taxes or implementing constraints. The Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA) is adopting a "same risk, same regulation" approach to crypto. The Hong Kong government recognizes the advantages that blockchain technology can bring to various industries, especially in terms of transparency and cost-efficiency, and has even established a Task Force on Promoting Web3 Development.

A 'Licensing Handbook for Virtual Asset Trading Platform Operators' was published by the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC) of Hong Kong in 2023. The Handbook provides general information about licensing matters concerning virtual asset trading platform operators and warns that 'It is a serious offence to carry on a regulated activity and/ or VA service in Hong Kong or actively market to the investing public of Hong Kong any services which constitute a regulated activity and/or VA service without the required licence(s)'

In 2023, the HKMA issued a warning to users reminding them to 'be aware of firms engaged in crypto business purporting to be "banks" or describing their products as "deposits"'. The central bank emphasised that, according to Hong Kong's banking laws, only licensed institutions are permitted to engage in banking or deposit-taking activities within the region.

7 Additional Resources

For more insights and in-depth information on various blockchain topics, readers are encouraged to visit the EU Blockchain Observatory and Forum website. An extensive list of comprehensive reports and studies can be accessed at the EU Blockchain Observatory and Forum.

References

IBM. Blockchain defined: Blockchain is a shared, immutable ledger for recording transactions, tracking assets, and building trust. Available at: https://www.ibm.com/topics/blockchain (Accessed: [date]).

Nakamoto, S. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. Available at: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf (Accessed: 30/11/2023).

How the Byzantine General Sacked the Castle: A Look Into Blockchain. Medium. Available at: https://medium.com/@DebrajG/how-the-byzantine-general-sacked-the-castle-a-look-into-blockchain-370fe637502c (Accessed: 30/11/2023).

Bitcoin Mining. Buy Bitcoin Worldwide. Available at: https://www.buybitcoinworldwide.com/mining/ (Accessed: 30/11/2023).

Page 30 | 33