The environmental impact of blockchain technology has been the topic of discussion for quite some time now, particularly regarding public proof-of-work (PoW) blockchains like Bitcoin and Ethereum (before the merge), where there has been severe criticism of the high energy consumption and carbon footprint imposed by the application of the technology. Below, we explain the above concerns:

- Blockchain networks, especially those utilizing PoW consensus mechanisms, require substantial computational power to validate transactions and add new blocks to the chain. This energy-intensive process has raised concerns about the environmental impact, as it often relies on fossil fuels for electricity generation:
- The energy consumption of PoW blockchains directly contributes to their carbon footprint. As miners compete to solve complex mathematical puzzles, they consume vast amounts of electricity, resulting in a significant release of greenhouse gases.
- The rapid advancement of blockchain technology can lead to a high turnover of hardware components, such as ASIC miners and GPUs, which become obsolete relatively quickly. The disposal of these electronic devices contributes to electronic waste and its associated environmental issues.

The above concerns may be addressed by exploring alternative consensus mechanisms. Proof-of-Stake (PoS) and Proof-of-Authority (PoA) are examples of more energy-efficient alternatives. These consensus mechanisms require validators to stake cryptocurrency as collateral instead of solving resource-intensive puzzles (that require high computational power).

Furthermore, there are some environment-friendly solutions to support the crypto-mining activity that can help reduce the carbon footprint, including renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, or hydroelectric power. There are options that allow the optimisation of smart contracts and applications for minimizing energy consumption and the use of resources, which can be beneficial both for the environment and for cutting down operational costs. Newer ASIC (application-specific integrated circuit) miners are designed to be more energy-efficient than their predecessors, and miners can choose locations with access to renewable energy sources to reduce their carbon footprint.

Several blockchain projects and mining pools have implemented carbon offset programs. These initiatives involve investing in projects that reduce greenhouse gas emissions to balance out the carbon footprint created by blockchain operations.

We have seen blockchain communities becoming actively engaged in discussions and initiatives to raise awareness and promote sustainability (e.g. *Positive Blockchain*, *BC100+*). Raising awareness about environmental concerns and supporting sustainable and eco-friendly blockchain projects, can significantly promote change and enhance the technology adaption.

Blockchain technology has the potential to bring about transformative changes in various industries. Still, it is essential to be aware of its environmental impact and try to contribute to more sustainable solutions that will help the broader adoption and scalability of the technology, reducing environmental concerns as much as possible.

## 6 Regulation of Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies

As blockchain and cryptocurrencies gain prominence, regions worldwide are grappling with regulatory approaches for the industry. The European Union has emerged as a fronrunner, establishing the first

Page 27 | 33