Additionally, DeFi is characterized by its public, verifiable transactions, immutable transaction history, and lack of geographical constraints, making it a truly global financial solution.

DeFi, while offering revolutionary financial services, carries inherent risks. These include technology risks, such as failures in the DeFi protocols due to issues with their technological infrastructure. Project risks are also prevalent, originating from the unique characteristics of each DeFi application while economic and governance risks arise from the management styles of these apps. DeFi has seen considerable growth, yet it still is an emerging field marked by distinct risks and a regulatory landscape that is still developing.

The European Union Blockchain Observatory & Forum (EUBOF) *Decentralized Finance (DeFi)* report provides an in-depth explanation of DeFi.

## 5.3 Virtual Worlds

Defining Virtual Worlds (or Metaverse) is challenging; hence, a lot of different definitions exist.

- “The metaverse seems to be whatever people’s imaginations dream it to be.” - McKinsey
- “It’s partly a dream for the future of the internet.” – The Verge
- “A seamless convergence of our physical and digital lives” – Onyx, JP Morgan
- “A massively scaled and interoperable network of real-time rendered 3D virtual worlds which can be experienced synchronously and persistently by an effectively unlimited number of users with an individual sense of presence, and with continuity of data” – Matthew Ball
- “But the metaverse is not 3D or 2D, or even necessarily graphical; it is about the inexorable dematerialization of physical space, distance, and objects.” – Jon Radoff
- “The metaverse is the moment in time where our digital life is worth more than our physical life.” – Shaan Puri

The European Commission (EC) has recently provided a concrete definition on the metaverse – or virtual world as it is now widely referred to:

“Virtual worlds are persistent, immersive environments, based on technologies including 3D and extended reality (XR), which make it possible to blend physical and digital worlds in real-time, for a variety of purposes such as designing, making simulations, collaborating, learning, socializing, carrying out transactions or providing entertainment.”

In a report published in 2022, the EU Blockchain Observatory and Forum defined the Virtual Worlds (Metaverse) as “the product of a technology-driven shift with generalized impact through persistent and adaptable digital experiences.”

According to the EUBOF report., “it is still too early to draw definitive conclusions on the desirable, let alone the commercially successful or the socially optimal characteristics of metaverses. Even the very definition of the term we have offered, as well as similar definitions found in the scientific or business literatures, cannot be considered definitive – the technology, its applications, and its use cases are rudimentary and are still evolving. Attempting to conclude the metaverse today is as risky as it would have been in the early 1990s to attempt to predict the future path of the internet”.

The essence of the definitions mentioned above, highlights several core themes. Firstly, there’s a broad and profound transition occurring across various norms, fields, and cultural divides, which is opening unprecedented opportunities. Secondly, the creation of continuous, unified, and collective experiences is fostering the emergence of what feels like a new 'world.' Lastly, while Virtual Worlds offer immersive and