Blockchain for beginners

EUBlockchain
Observatory and Forum

Blockchain Cryptography is important because it provides **security** using private keys, i.e., ensures that only the owner of the key can authorize transactions. It also provides **integrity**, as the hash functions make it extremely difficult to alter any information on the blockchain without being detected. As previously mentioned, we also get **decentralization**, as the same cryptographic rules apply to every copy of the blockchain, thus ensuring consistency across the network, without the need for a central authority.

It is still important to note that although blockchain cryptography is highly secure, it's not completely foolproof. It depends on the robustness of the algorithms used and the secrecy of the private keys.

## 2.1.3. Consensus Mechanisms

A consensus mechanism is a way to achieve agreement on a single data value among distributed processes or systems. In the context of blockchain, it's a set of rules or protocols that decide on the validity of the information added to the ledger. This is crucial because it ensures that all participants in the network agree on the current state of the ledger.

Types of Consensus Mechanisms:

### Proof of Work (PoW):

- Used by Bitcoin.
- Miners solve complex mathematical puzzles to validate transactions and create new blocks.
- The first one to solve the puzzle gets to add the block to the blockchain and is rewarded with cryptocurrency.
- Very secure but requires a lot of energy.

### Proof of Stake (PoS):

- Participants 'stake' their cryptocurrency as a form of security.
- Validators are chosen to create a new block based on the amount they stake and other factors.
- More energy efficient than PoW.

### Delegated Proof of Stake (dPoS):

- A democratic version of PoS.
- Stakeholders vote for a few delegates who manage the blockchain on their behalf.

### Proof of Authority (PoA):

- Transactions and blocks are validated by approved accounts, known as validators.
- Faster and more energy-efficient but less decentralized.

To better understand the concept of Consensus Mechanisms, picture a group of stakeholders who share a notebook. Each time one of the stakeholders wishes to add one note, they should follow specific rules:

- In PoW, they need to solve a difficult puzzle to earn the right to add the note.
- In PoS, they need to show they have a certain number of pages in the notebook (their stake) to be chosen randomly to add the note.
- In DPoS, everyone votes on a few people who will have the right to add notes.
- In PoA, only a few trusted people have the pen to write in the notebook.

scope UNIVERSITY of NICOSIA CERTH CENTRE FOR RESEARCH & TECHNOLOGY HELLAS Crystal ofe OpenForum Europe WH RESEARCH

Page 12 | 33