FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

| Cryptographic Library | Version | Relevant FortiGate Models |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Fortinet FortiASIC CP7 Cryptographic Library v5.2 | v5.2 in ASIC CP7 | FG-60D, FGR-60D, and FWF-60D |
| Fortinet FortiASIC CP8 Cryptographic Library v5.2 | v5.2 in ASIC CP8 | FG-100D, FG-140D-PoE, FG-200D, FG-300D, FG-500D, FG-600D, FG-900D, FG-1000D, FG-1200D, FG-1500D, FG-3200D, FG-3700D, FG-3815D, and FG-5001D |
| Fortinet FortiOS SSL Cryptographic Library v5.2 | Version 5.2.7 | All evaluated FortiGate models including VMs |
| Fortinet FortiOS FIPS Cryptographic Library v5.2 | Version 5.2.7 | All evaluated FortiGate models including VMs |
| Fortinet FortiOS RBG Cryptographic Library | Version 5.2.7 | All evaluated FortiGate models including VMs |

Table 24 – Cryptographic Libraries

Fortinet has verified the correctness of the implementation of the cryptographic support to fulfil the requirements stated in Section 6.2.2.

Cryptographic support is provided using a firmware based, deterministic random bit generator (DRBG) that conforms to NIST Special Publication 800-90A. This generates cryptographic keys whose strengths are modified by available entropy. Cryptographic support is provided using a Fortinet entropy token to seed the DRBG during the boot process and to periodically reseed the DRBG. Operation of the token is based on a wide-band Gaussian white noise generator and provides a source of entropy. The default reseed period is once every 24 hours (1440 minutes). The token is connected to the Fortinet hardware device or virtual machine hardware using a standard USB interface, and must be installed to complete the boot process and to reseed of the DRBG. The entropy token is responsible for loading a minimum of 256 bits of entropy.

Each FortiGate unit is delivered with a factory installed 2048-bit RSA public/private key pair. Asymmetric keys are also generated in support of TLS functionality.

Cryptographic key destruction meets the key zeroization requirements of Key Management Security Level 1 from FIPS PUB 140-2. The TOE only stores keys in memory, either in Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory (SDRAM) or Flash Random Access Memory (RAM). Keys are destroyed by overwriting the key storage area with an alternating pattern at least once.

Cryptographic operations are performed in accordance with the detail provided in Table 20. Note that the Fortinet FortiASIC CP7 Cryptographic Library and the Fortinet FortiASIC CP8 Cryptographic Library are considered to be in the operational environment.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FCS_CKM.1(1), FCS_CKM.1(2), FCS_CKM.4, FCS_COP.1.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 65 of 81