FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

- The server generates, signs (RSA PKCS#1) and sends DH parameters and the DH public value
- The client generates and sends the DH public value. The keying material is then used to encrypt/decrypt (using AES128 or AES256) and authenticate (using HMAC-SHA1 or HMAC-SHA256) the data exchange.

By default, HTTPS connections to the TOE are disabled and must be explicitly enabled before an administrator may use the Network Web-Based GUI. SHA1 is supported in order to maintain compatibility with older browser versions, and compliance with RFC 4346 and RFC 5246.

When a connection is first established, the server presents the 2048-bit RSA certificate to the connecting web browser. The administrator can examine the certificate to validate the identity of the TOE and then choose to continue with the connection if the certificate conforms to the expected values. Only after the certificate has been explicitly accepted as valid will the administrator be presented with the login page, where the user and password credentials can be submitted for authentication. Only local administrator account credentials can be used to successfully authenticate to the TOE via the Network Web-Based GUI.

The trusted channels provide communication between the TOE and other TOE devices in support of the HA cluster configuration, when implemented. This channel is logically distinct from other communication channels and provides assured identification of the end points and protection of the channel data from disclosure. HA heartbeat encryption and authentication is enabled to encrypt and authenticate HA heartbeat packets. This ensures that the cluster password and changes to the cluster configuration are not exposed allowing an attacker to sniff HA packets to get cluster information. Enabling HA heartbeat message authentication prevents an attacker from creating false HA heartbeat messages. False HA heartbeat messages could affect the stability of the cluster. HA heartbeat encryption and authentication are disabled by default, and must be enabled in the evaluated configuration. HA authentication and encryption uses AES-128 for encryption and SHA-1 for authentication.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FTP_ITC.1 and FTP_TRP.1

## 7.1.8 Intrusion Prevention

The TOE provides an Intrusion Prevention System that examines network traffic arriving on its interfaces for evidence of intrusion attempts.

Ingress packets received on a FortiGate interface are passed to the Denial of Service sensors, which determine if it is a valid information request or not. Detection of any potential attack is recorded in the IPS or packet logs. If the packet is allowed to pass based on the information flow policy (based on the Fortinet Protection Profile), it is examined against IPS signatures known to indicate potential attacks. If evidence of an attack is found, the TOE records the event in the IPS or packet logs. These logs are made available only to authorized administrators, and is provided in a manner suitable for the administrators to interpret the information.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FIP_DOS_EXT.1, FIP_SIG_EXT.1.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 71 of 81