FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

a) [The policy for the category, category group and classification to
which the URL has been assigned by the FortiGuard web filtering
service is set to ‘allow’; or
b) The local category, if used, is set to ‘allow’].

FDP_IFF.1(4).3
The TSF shall enforce the [no additional rules].

FDP_IFF.1(4).4
The TSF shall explicitly authorise an information flow based on the
following rules:
[An override has been set for the URL].

FDP_IFF.1(4).5
The TSF shall explicitly deny an information flow based on the following
rules:
[The authenticated user has reached the daily quota for this category,
category group or classification].

Application Note: The FortiGuard web filtering service assigns all websites to a category
based on content. Those not assigned to other categories are assigned to the ‘Unrated’
category. Category groups are similar categories grouped together for ease of
administration. A classification is assigned based on the characteristics of the site rather
than the site content. For example, the cached content classification indicates that the site
caches content, but provides no indication of the content type. Not every URL has an
assigned classification. A quota is a time limit placed on viewing URLs assigned to a
particular category, category group or classification.

6.2.4 Identification and Authentication (FIA)

6.2.4.1 FIA_AFL.1 Authentication failure handling
Hierarchical to: No other components
Dependencies: FIA_UAU.1 Timing of authentication.

FIA_AFL.1.1
The TSF shall detect when [an administrator configurable positive
integer within administrator configured number between 1 and
10] of unsuccessful authentication attempts occur related to
[authorized TOE administrator access].

FIA_AFL.1.2
When the defined number of unsuccessful authentication attempts has
been [surpassed], the TSF shall [lock out the account for a
configurable period of time].

6.2.4.2 FIA_ATD.1 User attribute definition
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.

FIA_ATD.1.1
The TSF shall maintain the following list of security attributes belonging
to individual users:
a) [identity;
b) role;
c) authentication data].