FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

7.1.4 Identification and Authentication

In order to protect the TOE data and services, the TOE requires identification and authentication for all administrative access and network user access to specific services. The TOE maintains identity, role/authorization and authentication data to support this functionality. Identification and authentication is always enforced on the serial interface (local console). On the network interfaces identification and authentication is enforced for all administrator access, specific services, and VPN users. For local administrators, the identification and authentication mechanism is a username and password combination; for remote administration and user access to Telnet and FTP protocols, a FortiToken one-time password generator is required for authentication. Proxy users and administrators are presented with a system screen (configurable by an authorized administrator) prior to authentication, and must access this screen and authenticate prior to access. VPN peers authenticate using preshared keys or certificates for IPsec VPNs and certificates for SSL VPNs. The accounts are created by an authorized administrator over the serial or network interfaces.

The account of an administrative user or IT entity is disabled after a configurable number of unsuccessful authentication attempts. An authorized administrator must take action to re-enable the account before authentication may take place.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FIA_AFL.1, FIA_ATD.1, FIA_UAU.2, FIA_UAU.4, FIA_UAU.5, FIA_UID.2.

7.1.5 Security Management

Appropriately authorized administrators may read audit log data, acknowledge alarms and manage users, IPS policies and information flow policies. The TOE immediately enforces the revocation of a user from an administrative access profile.

The TOE provides a web-based GUI and a CLI to manage all of the security functions. The TOE allows both local and remote administration. Local administration is performed using the Local Console. Remote administration is performed using the Network web-based GUI.

An administrator account consists of an administrator’s identification and authentication information, and access profile. The access profile is a set of permissions that determine which functions the administrator is allowed to access. (The term ‘role’ is used in FMT_SMR.1; however, the TOE uses the term access profile in its administration.) For any function, a profile may allow either read only or read-write access. When an administrator has read-only access to a feature, the administrator can access the web-based manager page for that feature but cannot make changes to the configuration. Similar permissions are enforced for the CLI.

Each FortiGate unit (and the virtual model) comes with a default administrator account with all permissions, which may not be deleted. The term ‘authorized administrator’ is used throughout this ST to describe an administrator given the appropriate permission to perform tasks as required.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FMT_MO.F.1, FMT_MSA.1(1), FMT_MSA.1(2), FMT_MSA.1(3), FMT_MSA.1(4), FMT_SMF.1, FMT_SMR.1.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 69 of 81