FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

1 SECURITY TARGET INTRODUCTION

This Security Target (ST) defines the scope of the evaluation in terms of the assumptions made, the intended environment for the Target of Evaluation (TOE), the Information Technology (IT) security functional and assurance requirements to be met, and the level of confidence (evaluation assurance level) to which it is asserted that the TOE satisfies its IT security requirements. This document forms the baseline for the Common Criteria (CC) evaluation.

1.1 DOCUMENT ORGANIZATION

Section 1, Security Target Introduction, provides the ST reference, the TOE reference, the TOE overview and the TOE description.

Section 2, Conformance Claims, describes how the ST conforms to the Common Criteria and Protection Profiles (PPs).

Section 3, Security Problem Definition, describes the expected environment in which the TOE is to be used. This section defines the set of threats that are relevant to the secure operation of the TOE, organizational security policies with which the TOE must comply, and secure usage assumptions applicable to this analysis.

Section 4, Security Objectives, defines the set of security objectives to be satisfied by the TOE and by the TOE operating environment in response to the problem defined by the security problem definition.

Section 5, Extended Components Definition, defines the extended components which are then detailed in Section 6.

Section 6, Security Requirements, specifies the security functional and assurance requirements that must be satisfied by the TOE and the operational environment.

Section 7, TOE Summary Specification, describes the security functions and assurance measures that are included in the TOE to enable it to meet the IT security functional and assurance requirements.

Section 8, Terminology and Acronyms, defines the acronyms and terminology used in this ST.

1.2 SECURITY TARGET REFERENCE

ST Title: Fortinet FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls and FortiOS 5.2 CC Compliant Firmware Security Target

ST Version: 1.5

ST Date: 20 September 2016

1.3 TARGET OF EVALUATION REFERENCE

TOE Identification: FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls and FortiOS 5.2.7 CC Compliant Firmware

TOE Developer: Fortinet, Inc.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 5 of 81