FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

7 TOE SUMMARY SPECIFICATION
This section provides a description of the security functions and assurance
measures of the TOE that meet the TOE security requirements.

7.1 TOE SECURITY FUNCTIONS
A description of each of the TOE security functions follows.

7.1.1 Security Audit
The TOE creates audit records for administrative events, potential policy violations
and information flow decisions. The TOE records the identity of the administrator or
user who caused the event for which the audit record is created. The TOE applies
timestamps to auditable events as they occur.

The administrator can review the audit records. The audit records are stored locally,
using memory, a hard disk or a FLASH memory card depending on the model.

If the TOE is operating as part of an Active-Active HA cluster, the HA master logs all
administrative events for the cluster. The status of each node in a clustered TOE is
identified by a heartbeat. When the heartbeat response is not received from a slave
node, the master node no longer routes packets to the failed node. In the event
that the master fails, an existing node in the cluster will be promoted to become
the master node. The HA master also logs all potential policy violations and
information flow decisions that it processes. HA slaves log all potential policy
violations and information flow decisions that they process. The administrator can
access slave audit records through the master HA unit.

If the audit log of any node in a cluster becomes full, that node takes the action
specified for the master node. If this action is to shut down the TOE interfaces the
following will result:

a. If the audit log of a slave node becomes full (active-active cluster), the slave
node drops out of the cluster;

b. If the audit log of a master node becomes full (active-active cluster), the
master node has failed and one of the slave nodes will become the new
master node; and

c. If the audit log of the master node (active-passive cluster) becomes full, the
master node has failed and the backup node will take over as the master
node.

Logs may be read using the CLI or the web interface on the FortiGate unit. This
functionality is provided by default to the primary administrator account, and must
be specifically granted to any administrator account that may be created.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FAU_GEN.1, FAU_GEN.2,
FAU_SAR.1, FAU_SAR.2.

7.1.2 Cryptographic Support
The cryptographic libraries used by the TOE are listed in Table 24.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 64 of 81