FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

firewall policies that use this profile. When a request for a web page appears in
traffic controlled by one of these firewall policies, the URL is sent to the nearest
FortiGuard server. The URL category is returned. If the category is blocked, the TOE
provides a replacement message in place of the requested page. If the category is
not blocked, the page request is sent to the requested URL as normal.

The specific steps used by the TOE to process incoming information flows and
enforce its security policy are summarized below:

1. Local IPS Anomaly protection (kernel level);
2. Firewall flow control policy enforcement: First matched policy must explicitly
allow traffic to flow;
3. Authenticated flow control policies: If configured for flow-control policy,
successful authentication is required for traffic to flow; and
4. Protection Profile services (if explicitly enabled):
   a. Scheduling: If scheduling is enabled, time period must be explicitly
      allowed,
   b. SMTP Commands: All SMTP commands permitted unless explicitly
      denied,
   c. MIME Types: All MIME types permitted unless explicitly denied,
   d. FTP Sub-Commands: All FTP sub-commands permitted unless explicitly
      denied,
   e. HTTP Request Methods: All HTTP request methods permitted unless
      explicitly denied,
   f. FortiGuard Web Filter: All URL requests are checked against the web
      filter policy to determine if they are allowed or blocked.
   g. Virus protection: If content is matched against an Anti-Virus (AV)
      signature, the configured action is performed, and
   h. IPS Signature matching: If the nature of the connection or content is
      matched against an IPS signature, the configured action is performed.

It must be noted that traffic is only passed to the next enforcement method if
previous enforcement methods explicitly allow the traffic.

After all security policy enforcement is performed and no further security scrutiny is
required, the packet data is forwarded to the network host as determined by the
configuration of the egress interface and/or static route. Additionally, an authorized
administrator may set a maximum quota for the amount of data received by a
subject (source or destination) in a specified period of time. If a maximum quota
has been set by an authorized administrator, this quota will be enforced by the
TOE.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FDP_IFC.1(1), FDP_IFC.1(2),
FDP_IFC.1(3), FDP_IFC.1(4), FDP_IFF.1(1), FDP_IFF.1(2), FDP_IFF.1(3),
FDP_IFF.1(4), FMT_MSA.3(1), FMT_MSA.3(2).

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 68 of 81