FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

FTP_ITC.1.3 The TSF shall initiate communication via the trusted channel for [High
Availability Cluster communication].

6.2.7.2 FTP_TRP Trusted Path

Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.

FTP_TRP.1.1 The TSF shall provide a communication path between itself and
[remote] users that is logically distinct from other communication
paths and provides assured identification of its end points and
protection of the communicated data from [modification].

FTP_TRP.1.2 The TSF shall permit [remote users] to initiate communication via the
trusted path.

FTP_TRP.1.3 The TSF shall require the use of the trusted path for [remote
administration].

6.2.8 Intrusion Prevention (FIP)

6.2.8.1 FIP_DOS_EXT.1 Denial of Service

Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.

FIP_DOS_EXT.1.1 The TSF shall be able to recognize and block potential Denial of Service
attacks.

6.2.8.2 FIP_SIG_EXT.1 Signature Protection

Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.

FIP_SIG_EXT.1.1 The TSF shall detect and block potential attacks based on similarities to known
attack signatures.

6.2.9 Anti-Virus Requirements (FAV)

6.2.9.1 FAV_ACT_EXT.1 Anti-Virus Actions (EXT)

Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.

FAV_ACT_EXT.1.1 The TSF shall provide an authorized administrator the capability to
select one or more of the following actions: [quarantine the content of
the information flow, remove the content of the information flow,
[monitor the content of the information flow]] to be taken on detection
of a virus in an information flow.

FAV_ACT_EXT.1.2 The TSF shall provide a secure mechanism to update the virus
signatures used by the TSF.

Application Note: Virus signature updates consist of updates to both the virus signature
database and the processing engine for the detection of virus attacks. The TOE provides
specific guidance to administrators noting that in the evaluated configuration of the TOE,
only the virus signature database updates may be applied to the TOE.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 52 of 81