FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

| Requirement | Auditable Events | Additional Audit Record Contents |
| --- | --- | --- |
| FIP_DOS_EXT.1 | Detection of a potential Denial of Service |  |
| FIP_SIG_EXT.1 | Triggering of a match to a known signature |  |

Table 18 – Auditable Events

6.2.1.2 FAU_GEN.2 User identity association

Hierarchical to: No other components.

Dependencies: FAU_GEN.1 Audit data generation
FIA_UID.1 Timing of identification

FAU_GEN.2.1 For audit events resulting from actions of identified users, the TSF shall be able to associate each auditable event with the identity of the user that caused the event.

6.2.1.3 FAU_SAR.1 Audit review

Hierarchical to: No other components.

Dependencies: FAU_GEN.1 Audit data generation

FAU_SAR.1.1 The TSF shall provide [authorized administrators] with the capability to read [all audit information] from the audit records.

FAU_SAR.1.2 The TSF shall provide the audit records in a manner suitable for the user to interpret the information.

6.2.1.4 FAU_SAR.2 Restricted Audit review

Hierarchical to: No other components.

Dependencies: FAU_SAR.1 Audit review

FAU_SAR.2.1 The TSF shall prohibit all users read access to the audit records, except those users that have been granted explicit read-access.

6.2.2 Cryptographic Support (FCS)

6.2.2.1 FCS_CKM.1(1) Cryptographic key generation (Symmetric keys)

Hierarchical to: No other components.

Dependencies: FCS_COP.1 Cryptographic operation
FCS_CKM.4 Cryptographic key destruction

FCS_CKM.1(1).1 The TSF shall generate cryptographic keys in accordance with a specified cryptographic key generation algorithm [CTR DRBG (AES)] and specified cryptographic key sizes [listed in Table 19] that meet the following: [NIST Special Publication 800-90A].

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 40 of 81