FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

7.1.6 Protection of the TSF
The HA feature provides failover protection capability which includes configuration
synchronization. The FortiGate units that make up the HA cluster exchange
configuration information using a proprietary protocol (FortiGate Clustering Protocol
(FGCP)). Before any information is exchanged, members of a HA cluster
authenticate using information built into the FortiGate unit at the time of
manufacture. Configuration information is exchanged every time the configuration
of the master node in a HA cluster is updated. In this way, the slave or passive
nodes in a cluster are prepared to assume the role of master node should the
master node fail.

Time is provided by the TSF and can only be changed by an authorized
administrator. The TOE hardware devices include a hardware clock which is used to
generate reliable time stamps which in turn are used for audit records and to
provide scheduling features for flow control policies. The hardware clock does not
rely upon any external factors in order to function correctly. The time setting of the
hardware clock may only be modified by an authorized administrator and all such
modifications are recorded in the audit log. For the virtual device, time information
is provided to the TOE from the underlying hardware.

TOE Security Functional Requirements addressed: FPT_FLS.1, FPT_STM.1.

7.1.7 Trusted Path/Channel
The TOE provides trusted paths and trusted channels, protected by encryption to
guard against disclosure and protected by cryptographic signature to detect
modifications. The trusted paths and trusted channels are logically distinct from
other communication paths and provide assured identification of their end points.

The trusted paths are used to protect remote administrator authentication, all
remote administrator actions, Proxy User authentication, VPN user authentication,
and all VPN user actions. Remote administration sessions apply to the Network
Web-Based GUI.

The Network Web-Based GUI uses the HTTPS protocol for secure administrator
communications. With respect to the TOE implementation of HTTPS, TLS version
1.1 (RFC4346) and TLS 1.2 (RFC 5246) are used to encrypt and authenticate
administration sessions between the remote browser and TOE. The TOE supports
the following ciphersuites:
TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA (RFC 4346)
TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA (RFC 5246)
TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256 (RFC 5246)
TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA (RFC 4346, RFC 5246)
TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256 (RFC 4346, RFC 5246)
Use of these ciphersuites requires that the keying material be determined when the
session is established through a Diffie-Hellman (DH) exchange which consists of the
following steps:
- The server sends the 2048-bit RSA public certificate

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 70 of 81