FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

7.1.3 User Data Protection

The TOE operates in accordance with four information flow security functional policies:

a. The Unauthenticated Information Flow SFP allows unauthenticated users to pass information through the TOE, with firewall mediation according to the firewall rules defined by an authorized administrator;

b. The Authenticated Information Flow SFP allows authenticated users to pass information through the TOE, with firewall mediation according to the firewall rules defined by an authorized administrator;

c. The VPN SFP allows authenticated users to send and receive information protected using IPsec to and from the TOE; and

d. The Web Filtering SFP allows users to access only those URLs which are allowed.

The security functional policies are implemented as firewall rules. The rules that implement the Unauthenticated Information Flow, Authenticated Information Flow and VPN SFPs have restrictive default values and by default no information is allowed to flow, and TOE services are not available to unauthenticated users. The Web Filtering SFP has permissive default values, and does not block URLs until specifically identified. Regardless of firewall rules, packets which include parameters as specified by the security functional requirements which define the security functional policies are never permitted to pass through the TOE. Modification of the rules is restricted to an authorized administrator, and an authorized administrator may also specify alternative initial values to override the default values. The TOE allows an authorized administrator to view all information flows allowed by the information flow policy rules before the rules are applied.

The TOE mediates all information flows which pass through it. For information to pass through the TOE, it must match one of an authorized administrator specified firewall rules which permit the information flow.

The TOE ensures that all information flows provided to the TOE by external entities for transfer to other entities are subjected to the defined firewall rules and conform to them before they are allowed to proceed toward the destination entity.

The TSF immediately enforces revocation of a user's permission to use the information flow and also immediately enforces changes to the information flow policy rules when applied. The TOE also immediately enforces the disabling of a service which was available to an unauthenticated user.

The VPN functionality supports IPsec tunnel mode. An IPsec tunnel may be established between two FortiGate units, or between a client application and the FortiGate device. Authentication for IPsec services may be performed using Internet Key Exchange (IKE) pre-shared key or IKE RSA key. The IPsec VPN functionality is implemented through the Encapsulated Security Payload (ESP) protocol. When in FIPS-CC mode, TOE devices support IKEv1, as defined in RFCs 2407, 2408, 2409, RFC 4109, and RFC 4868 (for hash functions), and IKEv2 as defined in RFC 5996 (with mandatory support for NAT traversal as specified in section 2.23), RFC 4307, and RFC 4868 (for hash functions). IKEv1 Security Association (SA) lifetimes may

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 66 of 81