FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

6.2.4.3 FIA_UAU.2 User authentication before any action
Hierarchical to: FIA_UAU.1 Timing of authentication
Dependencies: FIA_UID.1 Timing of identification
FIA_UAU.2.1
The TSF shall require each user to be successfully authenticated before
allowing any other TSF-mediated actions on behalf of that user.

6.2.4.4 FIA_UAU.4 Single-use authentication mechanisms
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.
FIA_UAU.4.1
The TSF shall prevent reuse of authentication data related to
[authentication attempts from either an internal or external network by
a) authorized administrators;
b) authorized users].
Application Note: The single use authentication functionality is provided by the FortiToken
device.

6.2.4.5 FIA_UAU.5 Multiple authentication mechanisms
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.
FIA_UAU.5.1
The TSF shall provide [password, one time passcode and X.509
certificate based authentication mechanisms] to support user
authentication.

FIA_UAU.5.2
The TSF shall authenticate any user’s claimed identity according to the
[following rules:
a) administrators authenticate to the console via username and
password;
b) a one time passcode generator may be used to authenticate
administrators to the CLI or web management interface;
c) a one time passcode generator may be used to authenticate users
in support of the authenticated information flow SFP; and
d) X.509 certificates are used to authenticate VPN peers in support of
the VPN SFP].

6.2.4.6 FIA_UID.2 User identification before any action
Hierarchical to: FIA_UID.1 Timing of identification
Dependencies: No dependencies.
FIA_UID.2.1
The TSF shall require each user to be successfully identified before
allowing any other TSF-mediated actions on behalf of that user.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 48 of 81