FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

Rationale: The O.IDAUTH objective provides for authentication of users prior to any TOE function accesses. The O.ACCESS objective builds upon the O.IDAUTH objective by only permitting authorized users to access TOE functions. The O.PROTCT objective addresses this threat by providing TOE self-protection.

Threat: T.PROCOM
An unauthorized person or unauthorized external IT entity may be able to view, modify, and/or delete security related information that is sent between a remotely located authorized administrator and the TOE.

Objectives: O.ENCRYPTION
The TOE must protect the confidentiality of its dialogue with an authorized administrator through encryption, if the TOE allows administration to occur remotely from a connected network.

Rationale: O.ENCRYPTION requires that an authorized administrator uses encryption when performing administrative functions on the TOE remotely.

Threat: T.REPLAY
A user may gain inappropriate access to the TOE by replaying authentication information.

Objectives: O.REUSE
The TOE must provide a means to prevent the reuse of authentication data for users attempting to authenticate to the TOE from a connected network.

Rationale: The O.REUSE objective ensures that the TOE provides a means to prevent the reuse of authentication data, providing a means to mitigate the threat of a user replaying authentication information.

Threat: T.VIRUS
A malicious agent may attempt to pass a virus through or to the TOE.

Objectives: O.VIRUS
The TOE will detect and block viruses contained within an information flow which arrives at any of the TOE network interfaces.

Rationale: The O.VIRUS objective ensures that the TOE detects and blocks viruses which are contained in any information flow which reaches one of the TOE network interfaces.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 29 of 81