FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

b) administer web filtering functionality;
c) administer VPN rules, including those related to cryptographic
functionality;
d) administer security audit functionality;
d) administer user account information;
e) administer authentication mechanisms and authentication failure
handling policy;
f) review and delete audit logs; and
g) administer DoS and signature based protection policy
implementation].

6.2.5.9 FMT_SMR.1 Security roles
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: FIA_UID.1 Timing of identification
FMT_SMR.1.1 The TSF shall maintain the roles [administrator].
FMT_SMR.1.2 The TSF shall be able to associate users with roles.

6.2.6 Protection of the TSF (FPT)

6.2.6.1 FPT_FLS.1 Failure with preservation of secure state
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.
FPT_FLS.1.1 The TSF shall preserve a secure state when the following types of
failures occur: [failure of a unit in a FortiGate cluster is detected].
Application Note: The FPT_FLS.1 requirement is only implemented in the High Availability
configuration of the TOE.

6.2.6.2 FPT_STM.1 Reliable time stamps
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.
FPT_STM.1.1 The TSF shall be able to provide reliable time stamps.

6.2.7 Trusted Path/Channels (FTP)

6.2.7.1 FTP_ITC.1 Inter-TSF trusted channel
Hierarchical to: No other components.
Dependencies: No dependencies.
FTP_ITC.1.1 The TSF shall provide a communication channel between itself and
another trusted IT product that is logically distinct from other
communication channels and provides assured identification of its end
points and protection of the channel data from modification or
disclosure.
FTP_ITC.1.2 The TSF shall permit [the TSF, another trusted IT product] to initiate
communication via the trusted channel.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 51 of 81