FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

Rationale: O.IDAUTH requires that users be uniquely identified before accessing the TOE. O.ENCRYPTION ensures the confidentiality and integrity of data passed between the TOE and the authorized administrator for management purposes.

Threat: T.NOHALT
An unauthorized user may attempt to compromise the continuity of the TOE functionality by halting execution of the TOE.

Objectives:
O.ACCESS | The TOE must allow authorized users to access only appropriate TOE functions and data.
O.IDAUTH | The TOE must be able to identify and authenticate authorized users prior to allowing access to TOE security management functions or, if required, to a connected network.
O.PROTCT | The TOE must protect itself and the designated network against attempts by unauthorized users to bypass, deactivate, or tamper with TOE security functions in such a way as to cause unauthorized access to its functions and data, or to deny access to legitimate users.

Rationale: The O.IDAUTH objective provides for authentication of users prior to any TOE function accesses. The O.ACCESS objective builds upon the O.IDAUTH objective by only permitting authorized users to access TOE functions. The O.PROTCT objective addresses this threat by requiring the TOE to protect itself against bypass, or to deny access to legitimate users.

Threat: T.PRIVIL
An unauthorized user may gain access to the TOE and exploit system privileges to gain access to TOE security functions and data.

Objectives:
O.ACCESS | The TOE must allow authorized users to access only appropriate TOE functions and data.
O.IDAUTH | The TOE must be able to identify and authenticate authorized users prior to allowing access to TOE functions, data or, for certain specified services, to a connected network.
O.PROTCT | The TOE must protect itself from unauthorized modifications and access to its functions and data.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 28 of 81