FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

1.5.2 Logical Scope
The logical scope of the TOE may be broken down by the security function classes.
The following breakdown provides the description of the security features of the
TOE, and loosely follows the security functional classes described in Section 5.1 and
Section 6.2.

1.5.2.1 Security Audit
The TOE generates audit records for security relevant events. An administrator may
view the contents of the audit records; however, this functionality is restricted to
only those users authorized to view the records.

1.5.2.2 Cryptographic Support
The TOE provides key generation, key destruction and cryptographic operation
functions supported by CAVP-validated algorithms.

1.5.2.3 User Data Protection
The TOE provides interfaces to a defined set of networks and mediates information
flow among these networks. The TOE supports the information flow control policies
required for authenticated and unauthenticated service. Additionally, the TOE
supports a VPN information flow control policy and a Web filtering information flow
control policy.

1.5.2.4 Identification and Authentication
All TOE administrative users must be identified and authenticated. Administration
may either be performed locally using the Local Console CLI or remotely using the
Network Web-based GUI. TOE users may be required to authenticate in order to
access an internal or external network. The TOE blocks users after a configurable
number of authentication failures, after which an administrator must intervene to
allow access.

1.5.2.5 Security Management
The TOE provides administrative interfaces that permit users in administrative roles
to configure and manage the TOE. In each of the two evaluated configurations (i.e.,
the Single-Unit Configuration and High-Availability Configuration), the TOE is
connected to two or more networks and remote administration data flows from a
Network Management workstation to the TOE. In each configuration there is also a
Local Console, located within a Secure Area, with an interface to the TOE.

An administrator account is associated with an access profile which determines the
permissions of the individual administrator. Additionally, each FortiGate unit comes
with a default administrator account with all permissions, which may not be
deleted.

The terms ‘administrator’ and ‘authorized administrator’ are used throughout this
ST to describe an administrator given the appropriate permission to perform tasks
as required.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 19 of 81