FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

Each series member of the FortiGate Next Generation Firewalls, termed a FortiGate unit, consists of custom hardware and firmware with the exception of the FortiGate-VM models. The FortiGate unit consists of the following major components: FortiOS FIPS-CC compliant firmware, processor, memory, FortiASIC™, and input/output interfaces.

All models share a common software platform. All hardware modes use one of Fortinet’s proprietary ASIC (FortiASIC™) models to improve performance. The FortiASIC™ is a hardware device which provides cryptographic services to a FortiGate unit. The FortiASIC™ performs security and content processing. The FortiGate-VM models consist of software only and are supported by VMware Servers.

### 1.5.1.2 Network Interfaces

The FortiGate units may be securely administered over the external or internal networks, or locally within the secure area. The FortiGate units provide the following administration options:

- A dedicated console port is available on all models. The port is RS232 with either a DB-9 or RJ-45 connector. When connected to a terminal which supports VT100 emulation, the console port allows access to the FortiGate unit via the CLI. This Local Console CLI permits an authorized administrator to configure the FortiGate unit, monitor its operation, and examine the audit logs that are created.

- Remote administration may be performed on all models through any network port that has been configured by an authorized administrator to allow HTTPS for the Network Web-Based GUI. When connected to a Network Management Station, this port provides remote access to the Network Web-Based GUI and allows an authorized administrator to configure the FortiGate Unit, monitor its operation, and examine the audit logs that are created.

- All models are equipped with a Universal Serial Bus (USB) port that may be used by an authorized administrator to use the Fortinet token hardware entropy source. This is required for FIPS mode operation.

- On all models, an authorized administrator may configure logging information to be sent to a FortiAnalyzer unit.

- On all models, an authorized administrator may configure automatic Anti-Virus and Intrusion Prevention System (IPS) updates from the FortiGuard Distribution Server.

The FortiGate units are designed to be installed and used in an environment that is configured and controlled in accordance with the administrator guidance that is supplied with the product.

### 1.5.1.3 TOE Boundary - Single-Unit Configuration

In the single-unit configuration, which is supported by all of the FortiGate series, the TOE consists of a single FortiGate unit. The FortiGate unit controls network access by implementing classic firewall concepts, in which the firewall is linked to two or more networks and controls the transfer of data between them. The

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 13 of 81