FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

| FTP_ITC.1 | Inter-TSF trusted channel |
| --- | --- |
| FTP_TRP.1 | Trusted path |

**Rationale:**
FCS_CKM.1(1), FCS_CKM.1(2), FCS_CKM.4, and FCS_COP.1 support the objective by providing the cryptographic functionality required to support trusted links. FTP_ITC.1 and FTP_TRP.1 support the objective by specifying the use of that cryptography between the TOE devices, and between the TOE and the remote administrator.

**Objective: O.IDAUTH**
The TOE must be able to identify and authenticate authorized users prior to allowing access to TOE security management functions or, if required, to a connected network.

**Security Functional Requirements:**
| FIA_ATD.1 | User attribute definition |
| --- | --- |
| FIA_UAU.2 | User authentication before any action |
| FIA_UAU.4 | Single-use authentication mechanisms |
| FIA_UAU.5 | Multiple authentication mechanisms |
| FIA_UID.2 | User identification before any action |
| FMT_SMR.1 | Security roles |

**Rationale:**
FIA_ATD.1 supports this objective by ensuring that the data required to identify and authenticate users is maintained by the TOE. FIA_UID.2 and FIA_UAU.2 ensure that users are identified and authenticated prior to being granted access to TOE security management functions, or to a connected network.

FIA_UAU.4 supports the objective by providing a single use authentication mechanism. FIA_UAU.5 provides multiple possible authentication mechanisms that may be used to support the objective.

FMT_SMR.1 supports the objective by providing roles which are used to provide users access to TOE security functionality.

**Objective: O.MEDIAT**
The TOE must mediate the flow of all information between clients and servers located on internal and external networks governed by the TOE.

**Security Functional Requirements:**
| FDP_IFC.1(1) | Subset information flow control (unauthenticated policy) |
| --- | --- |
| FDP_IFC.1(2) | Subset information flow control (authenticated policy) |
| FDP_IFC.1(3) | Subset information flow control (VPN Policy) |

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 57 of 81