FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

be limited to 24 hours for Phase 1 SAs, and 8 hours for Phase 2 SAs. IKEv1 SA
lifetimes may also be limited by traffic volume. This value is determined during the
configuration of the Phase 2 parameters, and may be set to between 100 and 200
MB of traffic for the specified SA. Once the lifetime for the SA has been reached,
the TOE device will renegotiate the SA. IKE protocols support the use of Diffie-
Hellman (DH) Groups 1 (with 768-bit MODP⁵), 2 (with 1024-bit MODP), 5 (with
1536-bit MODP), and 14 (with 2048-bit MODP). The use of pre-shared keys is
supported for authenticating IPsec peer connections. Pre-shared keys may be
between 6 and 32 characters in length, and may be composed of upper and lower
case letters, numbers and special characters. Certificate based authentication may
also be used.

The TOE follows a sequence of ordered steps in order to decide whether or not a
requested information flow is allowed to proceed. The very first processing step
performed by the FortiGate unit on incoming information is an inspection for IPS
anomalies which target the TOE directly. Examples of IPS anomalies include syn
floods, ping of death, source routing and port scans. If the incoming information
flow is not blocked by the inspection for IPS anomalies, it is next processed against
the firewall policy rules and authentication requirements. If the incoming
information flow is allowed by the firewall policy rules (using the first match
algorithm) and if any required authentication has been completed successfully, the
incoming information flow may be subject to additional restrictions based on any
Protection Profile which is associated with the firewall policy rule which allowed the
information flow.

Protection Profiles are used to define additional information flow restrictions which
may be based on any or all of the following types of information:

- Scheduling
- SMTP commands
- SMTP Multi-Purpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) types
- FTP subcommands
- HTTP request methods
- Virus signatures
- IPS signature matching

Only an authorized administrator may create, modify or delete a Protection Profile.
Additionally, only an authorized administrator may associate a Protection Profile
with a firewall policy rule.

If the request is an HTTP or HTTPS, the URL may be checked against the FortiGuard
Web Filtering Policy. FortiGuard Web Filtering is made up of an external service
which provides category, category group and classification information for any
requested website, and an internal policy that applies that information. When
FortiGuard Web Filter is enabled in a web filter profile, the setting is applied to all

⁵ Modular Exponential

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 67 of 81