FortiGate™ Next Generation Firewalls
Security Target

relevant Quickstart, Security System or Installation Guide as shown in Tables 1 to
6.

## 1.4 TOE OVERVIEW

The TOE is a group of network appliances designed to provide firewall, Virtual
Private Network (VPN), Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN), antivirus protection,
antispa m protection and content filtering to provide network protection for Internet
Protocol version 4 (IPv4) and Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6) networks.

The FortiGate Family of Next Generation Firewalls span the full range of network
environments, from the remote office and branch office (ROBO) to service provider,
offering cost-effective systems for any size of application. They are hardware
security systems designed to protect computer networks from abuse. They reside
between the network they are protecting and an external network, such as the
Internet, restricting the information flow between them permitted by policies (set of
rules) defined by an authorized administrator. They detect and eliminate the most
damaging, content-based threats from email and Web traffic such as viruses,
worms, and intrusions in real-time, without degrading network performance. In
addition to providing application-level protection, the FortiGate series uses
dedicated, easily managed platforms to deliver a full range of network-level
services including: VPN, Virtual Local Area Network (VLAN), Network Address
Translation (NAT), intrusion protection, web filtering, antivirus, antispa m, and
traffic shaping.

Each FortiGate unit consists of a hardware box and the FortiOS™ custom NGFW
firmware. Administration of the system may be performed locally using an
administrator console, or remotely via a network management station. The
FortiGate NGFW can operate either alone or as part of a cluster in order to provide
high availability of services. Due to having different device drivers, the models
offered in the FortiGate Series have their own unique firmware image created from
the same firmware build. The different models in the series provide for increased
performance and additional protected ports.

All CC-evaluated FortiGate NGFW employ Fortinet’s unique FortiASIC™ processor
and the powerful, secure, FortiOS™ operating system to achieve breakthrough
price/performance. The Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) processors
accelerate network security in Fortinet platforms. The purpose built, high-
performance network and content processors use intelligent and proprietary digital
engines to accelerate compute-intensive security services. With the FortiOS, they
provide a critical layer of real-time, network-based antivirus protection that
complements host-based antivirus software and supports “defence-in-depth”
strategies without compromising performance or cost. They can be deployed to
provide antivirus protection, antispa m protection and content filtering in
conjunction with existing firewall, VPN, VLAN, and related devices, or to provide
complete network protection.

The FortiGate series supports the Internet Protocol Security (IPsec) industry
standard for VPN, allowing VPNs to be configured between a FortiGate model and
any client or gateway/firewall that supports IPsec VPN. The FortiGate series also
provides Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) VPN services.

Doc No: 1918-002-D002 Version: 1.5 Date: 20 September 2016 Page 9 of 81