As well as the new service and the legacy monolith, there are two other components. The first is a request router, which handles incoming (HTTP) requests. It is similar to the API gateway described in Chapter 2. The router sends requests corresponding to new functionality to the new service. It routes legacy requests to the monolith.

The other component is the glue code, which integrates the service with the monolith. A service rarely exists in isolation and often needs to access data owned by the monolith. The glue code, which resides in either the monolith, the service, or both, is responsible for the data integration. The service uses the glue code to read and write data owned by the monolith.

There are three strategies that a service can use to access the monolith’s data:
- Invoke a remote API provided by the monolith
- Access the monolith’s database directly
- Maintain its own copy of the data, which is synchronized with the monolith’s database

The glue code is sometimes called an anti-corruption layer. That is because the glue code prevents the service, which has its own pristine domain model, from being polluted by concepts from the legacy monolith’s domain model. The glue code translates between the two different models. The term anti-corruption layer first appeared in the must-read book Domain Driven Design by Eric Evans and was then refined in a white paper. Developing an anti-corruption layer can be a non-trivial undertaking. But it is essential to create one if you want to grow your way out of monolithic hell.

Implementing new functionality as a lightweight service has a couple of benefits. It prevents the monolith from becoming even more unmanageable. The service can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently of the monolith. You experience the benefits of the microservice architecture for each new service that you create.

However, this approach does nothing to address the problems with the monolith. To fix those problems you need to break up the monolith. Let’s look at strategies for doing that.

## Strategy #2 – Split Frontend and Backend

A strategy that shrinks the monolithic application is to split the presentation layer from the business logic and data access layers. A typical enterprise application consists of at least three different types of components:
- Presentation layer – Components that handle HTTP requests and implement either a (REST) API or an HTML-based web UI. In an application that has a sophisticated user interface, the presentation tier is often a substantial body of code.
- Business logic layer – Components that are the core of the application and implement the business rules.
- Data-access layer – Components that access infrastructure components, such as databases and message brokers.