# Serverless Deployment

AWS Lambda is an example of serverless deployment technology. It supports Java, Node.js, and Python services. To deploy a microservice, you package it as a ZIP file and upload it to AWS Lambda. You also supply metadata, which among other things specifies the name of the function that is invoked to handle a request (a.k.a. an event). AWS Lambda automatically runs enough instances of your microservice to handle requests. You are simply billed for each request based on the time taken and the memory consumed. Of course, the devil is in the details, and you will see shortly that AWS Lambda has limitations. But the notion that neither you as a developer, nor anyone in your organization, need worry about any aspect of servers, virtual machines, or containers is incredibly appealing.

A Lambda function is a stateless service. It typically handles requests by invoking AWS services. For example, a Lambda function that is invoked when an image is uploaded to an S3 bucket could insert an item into a DynamoDB images table and publish a message to a Kinesis stream to trigger image processing. A Lambda function can also invoke third-party web services.

There are four ways to invoke a Lambda function:

- Directly, using a web service request
- Automatically, in response to an event generated by an AWS service such as S3, DynamoDB, Kinesis, or Simple Email Service
- Automatically, via an AWS API Gateway to handle HTTP requests from clients of the application
- Periodically, according to a cron-like schedule

As you can see, AWS Lambda is a convenient way to deploy microservices. The request-based pricing means that you only pay for the work that your services actually perform. Also, because you are not responsible for the IT infrastructure, you can focus on developing your application.

There are, however, some significant limitations. Lambda functions are not intended to be used to deploy long-running services, such as a service that consumes messages from a third-party message broker. Requests must complete within 300 seconds. Services must be stateless, since in theory AWS Lambda might run a separate instance for each request. They must be written in one of the supported languages. Services must also start quickly; otherwise, they might be timed out and terminated.