format. Even if you are writing your microservices in a single language today, it’s likely that you will use other languages in the future.

There are two main kinds of message formats: text and binary. Examples of text-based formats include JSON and XML. An advantage of these formats is that not only are they human-readable, they are self-describing. In JSON, the attributes of an object are represented by a collection of name-value pairs. Similarly, in XML the attributes are represented by named elements and values. This enables a consumer of a message to pick out the values that it is interested in and ignore the rest. Consequently, minor changes to the message format can be easily made backward compatible.

The structure of XML documents is specified by an XML schema. Over time, the developer community has come to realize that JSON also needs a similar mechanism. One option is to use JSON Schema, either stand-alone or as part of an IDL such as Swagger.

A downside of using a text-based message format is that the messages tend to be verbose, especially XML. Because the messages are self-describing, every message contains the name of the attributes in addition to their values. Another drawback is the overhead of parsing text. Consequently, you might want to consider using a binary format.

There are several binary formats to choose from. If you are using Thrift RPC, you can use binary Thrift. If you get to pick the message format, popular options include Protocol Buffers and Apache Avro. Both of these formats provide a typed IDL for defining the structure of your messages. One difference, however, is that Protocol Buffers uses tagged fields, whereas an Avro consumer needs to know the schema in order to interpret messages. As a result, API evolution is easier with Protocol Buffers than with Avro. This blog post is an excellent comparison of Thrift, Protocol Buffers, and Avro.

## Summary

Microservices must communicate using an inter-process communication mechanism. When designing how your services will communicate, you need to consider various issues: how services interact, how to specify the API for each service, how to evolve the APIs, and how to handle partial failure. There are two kinds of IPC mechanisms that microservices can use: asynchronous messaging and synchronous request/response. In order to communicate, one service must be able to find another. In Chapter 4 we will look at the problem of service discovery in a microservices architecture.