The services use a combination of notifications, request/response, and publish/subscribe. For example, the passenger's smartphone sends a notification to the Trip Management service to request a pickup. The Trip Management service verifies that the passenger's account is active by using request/response to invoke the Passenger Management service. The Trip Management service then creates the trip and uses publish/subscribe to notify other services including the Dispatcher, which locates an available driver.

Now that we have looked at interaction styles, let's take a look at how to define APIs.

## Defining APIs

A service's API is a contract between the service and its clients. Regardless of your choice of IPC mechanism, it's important to precisely define a service's API using some kind of interface definition language (IDL). There are even good arguments for using an **API-first** approach to defining services. You begin the development of a service by writing the interface definition and reviewing it with the client developers. It is only after iterating on the API definition that you implement the service. Doing this design up front increases your chances of building a service that meets the needs of its clients.

As you will see later in this article, the nature of the API definition depends on which IPC mechanism you are using. If you are using messaging, the API consists of the message channels and the message types. If you are using HTTP, the API consists of the URLs and the request and response formats. Later on we will describe some IDLs in more detail.

## Evolving APIs

A service's API invariably changes over time. In a monolithic application it is usually straightforward to change the API and update all the callers. In a microservices-based application it is a lot more difficult, even if all of the consumers of your API are other services in the same application. You usually cannot force all clients to upgrade in lockstep with the service. Also, you will probably **incrementally deploy new versions of a service** such that both old and new versions of a service will be running simultaneously. It is important to have a strategy for dealing with these issues.

How you handle an API change depends on the size of the change. Some changes are minor and backward compatible with the previous version. You might, for example, add attributes to requests or responses. It makes sense to design clients and services so that they observe the **robustness principle**. Clients that use an older API should continue to work with the new version of the service. The service provides default values for the missing request attributes and the clients ignore any extra response attributes. It is important to use an IPC mechanism and a messaging format that enable you to easily evolve your APIs.

Sometimes, however, you must make major, incompatible changes to an API. Since you can't force clients to upgrade immediately, a service must support older versions of the