# Microservices in Action: NGINX and Application Architecture
by Floyd Smith

NGINX enables you to implement various scaling and mirroring options that make your application more responsive and highly available. The choices you make for scaling and mirroring affect how you do inter-process communication, the topic of this chapter.

We at NGINX recommend that you consider a **four-tier architecture** when implementing your microservices-based application. Forrester has a detailed report on the topic which you can **download**, at no charge, from NGINX.

The tiers represent clients (the newest layer – including desktop or laptop and mobile, wearable, or IoT clients), delivery, aggregation (including data storage), and services, which incorporate application functionality and service-specific, rather than shared, data stores.

The four-tier architecture is much more flexible, scalable, responsive, mobile-friendly, and inherently supportive of microservices-based application development and delivery than the previous, three-tier architecture. Industry leaders such as Netflix and Uber are able to achieve the level of performance their users demand because they use this kind of architecture.

NGINX is inherently well-suited to the four-tier architecture, with capabilities ranging from media streaming for the client tier, to load balancing and caching for the delivery tier, tools for high-performance and secure API-based communication at the aggregation tier, and support for flexible management of ephemeral services instances in the services tier.

This same flexibility makes it possible to implement robust scaling and mirroring patterns for handling changes in traffic volumes, to protect against security attacks, and to provide high availability with failover configurations available at a moment’s notice.

In these more complex architectures, which include service instance instantiation as demand requires and the need for constant service discovery, decoupled inter-process communications tend to be favored. The asynchronous and one-to-many communication styles here may be more flexible, and ultimately offer higher performance and reliability, than tightly coupled communication styles.