enables a mobile client to retrieve all of the product details with a single request. The API Gateway handles the request by invoking the various services – product information, recommendations, reviews, etc. – and combining the results.

A great example of an API Gateway is the **Netflix API Gateway**. The Netflix streaming service is available on hundreds of different kinds of devices including televisions, set-top boxes, smartphones, gaming systems, tablets, etc. Initially, Netflix attempted to provide a **one-size-fits-all** API for their streaming service. However, they discovered that it didn't work well because of the diverse range of devices and their unique needs. Today, they use an API Gateway that provides an API tailored for each device by running device-specific adapter code. An adapter typically handles each request by invoking, on average, six to seven backend services. The Netflix API Gateway handles billions of requests per day.

## Benefits and Drawbacks of an API Gateway

As you might expect, using an API Gateway has both benefits and drawbacks. A major benefit of using an API Gateway is that it encapsulates the internal structure of the application. Rather than having to invoke specific services, clients simply talk to the gateway. The API Gateway provides each kind of client with a specific API. This reduces the number of round trips between the client and application. It also simplifies the client code.

The API Gateway also has some drawbacks. It is yet another highly available component that must be developed, deployed, and managed. There is also a risk that the API Gateway becomes a development bottleneck. Developers must update the API Gateway in order to expose each microservice's endpoints.

It is important that the process for updating the API Gateway be as lightweight as possible. Otherwise, developers will be forced to wait in line in order to update the gateway. Despite these drawbacks, however, for most real-world applications it makes sense to use an API Gateway.

## Implementing an API Gateway

Now that we have looked at the motivations and the trade-offs for using an API Gateway, let's look at various design issues you need to consider.

## Performance and Scalability

Only a handful of companies operate at the scale of Netflix and need to handle billions of requests per day. However, for most applications the performance and scalability of the API Gateway is usually very important. It makes sense, therefore, to build the API Gateway on a platform that supports asynchronous, non-blocking I/O. There are a variety of different technologies that can be used to implement a scalable API Gateway. On the JVM you can use one of the NIO-based frameworks such as Netty, Vertx, Spring Reactor,