To use this pattern, you package your service as a container image. A container image is a filesystem image consisting of the applications and libraries required to run the service. Some container images consist of a complete Linux root filesystem. Others are more lightweight. To deploy a Java service, for example, you build a container image containing the Java runtime, perhaps an Apache Tomcat server, and your compiled Java application.

Once you have packaged your service as a container image, you then launch one or more containers. You usually run multiple containers on each physical or virtual host. You might use a cluster manager such as **Kubernetes** or **Marathon** to manage your containers. A cluster manager treats the hosts as a pool of resources. It decides where to place each container based on the resources required by the container and resources available on each host.

The Service Instance per Container pattern has both benefits and drawbacks. The benefits of containers are similar to those of VMs. They isolate your service instances from each other. You can easily monitor the resources consumed by each container. Also, like VMs, containers encapsulate the technology used to implement your services. The container management API also serves as the API for managing your services.

However, unlike VMs, containers are a lightweight technology. Container images are typically very fast to build. For example, on my laptop it takes as little as 5 seconds to package a **Spring Boot** application as a Docker container. Containers also start very quickly, since there is no lengthy OS boot mechanism. When a container starts, what runs is the service.

There are some drawbacks to using containers. While container infrastructure is rapidly maturing, it is not as mature as the infrastructure for VMs. Also, containers are not as secure as VMs, since the containers share the kernel of the host OS with one another.

Another drawback of containers is that you are responsible for the undifferentiated heavy lifting of administering the container images. Also, unless you are using a hosted container solution such as **Google Container Engine** or **Amazon EC2 Container Service** (ECS), then you must administer the container infrastructure and possibly the VM infrastructure that it runs on.

Also, containers are often deployed on an infrastructure that has per-VM pricing. Consequently, as described earlier, you will likely incur the extra cost of overprovisioning VMs in order to handle spikes in load.

Interestingly, the distinction between containers and VMs is likely to blur. As mentioned earlier, Boxfuse VMs are fast to build and start. The **Clear Containers** project aims to create lightweight VMs. There is also growing interest in **unikernels**. Docker, Inc acquired Unikernel Systems in early 2016.

There is also the newer and increasingly popular concept of server-less deployment, which is an approach that sidesteps the issue of having to choose between deploying services in containers or VMs. Let’s look at that next.