# Resources for Microservices and NGINX

by Floyd Smith

The NGINX website is already a valued resource for people seeking to learn about microservices and implement them in their organizations. From introductory descriptions, such as the first chapter of this ebook, to advanced resources such as the Fabric Model of the NGINX Microsoft Reference Architecture, there's a graduate seminar-level course in microservices available at https://www.nginx.com.

Here are a few tips and tricks, and a few key resources, for getting started on your journey with NGINX and microservices:

- **Site search and web search.** The best way to search the NGINX website for microservices material is to use site-specific search in Google:

  - `site:nginx.com topic` to search the NGINX website.
  - `site:nginx.com/blog topic` to search the NGINX blog. All blog posts are tagged, so once you find a topic you want to follow up on, just click the tag to see all relevant posts. Authors are linked to all their articles as well.
  - Search for `topic nginx` to find content relevant to both NGINX and your topic of choice on the Web as a whole – there's a lot of great stuff out there. DigitalOcean may be the best external place to start.

- **General NGINX resources.** Here are links to different types of content on the NGINX site:

  - **Blog posts.** Once you find a post on microservices, click the microservices tag to see all such posts.
  - **Webinars.** Click the Microservices filter to see microservices-relevant webinars.
  - **White papers, reports, and ebooks.** Use site search on this part of the site, as described above, to find resources relating specifically to microservices and other topics of your choice.
  - **NGINX YouTube channel.** NGINX has dozens of videos, including all the presentations from several years of our annual conference. Many of these videos have been converted into blog posts if you prefer reading to watching; search for the name of the speaker in the NGINX blog.