Another great benefit of using a relational database is that it provides SQL, which is a rich, declarative, and standardized query language. You can easily write a query that combines data from multiple tables. The RDBMS query planner then determines the optimal way to execute the query. You don't have to worry about low-level details such as how to access the database. And, because all of your application's data is in one database, it is easy to query.

Unfortunately, data access becomes much more complex when we move to a microservices architecture. That is because the data owned by each microservice is *private to that microservice* and can only be accessed via its API. Encapsulating the data ensures that the microservices are loosely coupled and can evolve independently of one another. If multiple services access the same data, schema updates require time-consuming, coordinated updates to all of the services.

To make matters worse, different microservices often use different kinds of databases. Modern applications store and process diverse kinds of data, and a relational database is not always the best choice. For some use cases, a particular NoSQL database might have a more convenient data model and offer much better performance and scalability. For example, it makes sense for a service that stores and queries text to use a text search engine such as Elasticsearch. Similarly, a service that stores social graph data should probably use a graph database, such as Neo4j. Consequently, microservices-based applications often use a mixture of SQL and NoSQL databases, the so-called *polyglot persistence* approach.

A partitioned, polyglot-persistent architecture for data storage has many benefits, including loosely coupled services and better performance and scalability. However, it does introduce some distributed data management challenges.

The first challenge is how to implement business transactions that maintain consistency across multiple services. To see why this is a problem, let's take a look at an example of an online B2B store. The Customer Service maintains information about customers, including their credit lines. The Order Service manages orders and must verify that a new order doesn't violate the customer's credit limit. In the monolithic version of this application, the Order Service can simply use an ACID transaction to check the available credit and create the order.