ebook we will look at how **software-based application delivery** approaches like NGINX, which easily handles caching, access control, API metering, and monitoring at the microservice level, can help solve this problem.

## Summary

Building complex applications is inherently difficult. The Monolithic Architecture pattern only makes sense for simple, lightweight applications. You will end up in a world of pain if you use it for complex applications. The Microservices Architecture pattern is the better choice for complex, evolving applications, despite the drawbacks and implementation challenges.

In later chapters, I'll dive into the details of various aspects of the Microservices Architecture pattern and discuss topics such as service discovery, service deployment options, and strategies for refactoring a monolithic application into services.

## Microservices in Action: NGINX Plus as a Reverse Proxy Server

by Floyd Smith

NGINX powers **more than 50% of the top 10,000 websites**, and that's largely because of its capabilities as a reverse proxy server. You can "drop NGINX in front of" current applications and even database servers to gain all sorts of capabilities – higher performance, greater security, scalability, flexibility, and more. All with little or no change to your existing application and configuration code. For sites suffering performance stress – or anticipating high loads in the future – the effect may seem little short of miraculous.

So what does this have to do with microservices? Implementing a reverse proxy server, and using the other capabilities of NGINX, gives you architectural flexibility. A reverse proxy server, static and application file caching, and SSL/TLS and HTTP/2 termination all take load off your application, freeing it to "do what only it" – the application – "can do".

NGINX also serves as a load balancer, a crucial role in microservices implementations. The advanced features in NGINX Plus, including sophisticated load-balancing algorithms, multiple methods for session persistence, and management and monitoring, are especially useful with microservices. (NGINX has recently added support for service discovery using DNS SRV records, a cutting-edge feature.) And, as mentioned in this chapter, NGINX can help in automating the deployment of microservices.

In addition, NGINX provides the necessary functionality to power the three models in the **NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture**. The Proxy Model uses NGINX as an API Gateway; the Router Mesh model uses an additional NGINX server as a hub for inter-process communication; and the Fabric Model uses one NGINX server per microservice, controlling HTTP traffic and, optionally, implementing SSL/TLS between microservices, a breakthrough capability.