1 Introduction to Microservices

Microservices are currently getting a lot of attention: articles, blogs, discussions on social media, and conference presentations. They are rapidly heading towards the peak of inflated expectations on the **Gartner Hype cycle**. At the same time, there are skeptics in the software community who dismiss microservices as nothing new. Naysayers claim that the idea is just a rebranding of service-oriented architecture (SOA). However, despite both the hype and the skepticism, the **Microservices Architecture pattern** has significant benefits – especially when it comes to enabling the agile development and delivery of complex enterprise applications.

This chapter is the first in this seven-chapter ebook about designing, building, and deploying microservices. You will learn about the microservices approach and how it compares to the more traditional **Monolithic Architecture pattern**. This ebook will describe the various elements of a microservices architecture. You will learn about the benefits and drawbacks of the Microservices Architecture pattern, whether it makes sense for your project, and how to apply it.

Let’s first look at why you should consider using microservices.

## Building Monolithic Applications

Let’s imagine that you were starting to build a brand new taxi-hailing application intended to compete with Uber and Hailo. After some preliminary meetings and requirements gathering, you would create a new project either manually or by using a generator that comes with a platform such as Rails, Spring Boot, Play, or Maven.

Microservices – From Design to Deployment 1 Ch. 1 – Introduction to Microservices