The third-party registration pattern has various benefits and drawbacks. A major benefit is that services are decoupled from the service registry. You don't need to implement service-registration logic for each programming language and framework used by your developers. Instead, service instance registration is handled in a centralized manner within a dedicated service.

One drawback of this pattern is that unless it's built into the deployment environment, it is yet another highly available system component that you need to set up and manage.

## Summary

In a microservices application, the set of running service instances changes dynamically. Instances have dynamically assigned network locations. Consequently, in order for a client to make a request to a service it must use a service-discovery mechanism.

A key part of service discovery is the **service registry**. The service registry is a database of available service instances. The service registry provides a management API and a query API. Service instances are registered with and unregistered from the service registry using the management API. The query API is used by system components to discover available service instances.

There are two main service-discovery patterns: client-side discovery and service-side discovery. In systems that use **client-side service discovery**, clients query the service registry, select an available instance, and make a request. In systems that use **server-side discovery**, clients make requests via a router, which queries the service registry and forwards the request to an available instance.

There are two main ways that service instances are registered with and unregistered from the service registry. One option is for service instances to register themselves with the service registry, the **self-registration pattern**. The other option is for some other system component to handle the registration and unregistration on behalf of the service, the **third-party registration pattern**.

In some deployment environments you need to set up your own service-discovery infrastructure using a service registry such as **Netflix Eureka**, **etcd**, or **Apache ZooKeeper**. In other deployment environments, service discovery is built in. For example, **Kubernetes** and **Marathon** handle service instance registration and unregistration. They also run a proxy on each cluster host that plays the role of **server-side discovery** router.

An HTTP reverse proxy and load balancer such as **NGINX** can also be used as a server-side discovery load balancer. The service registry can push the routing information to NGINX and invoke a graceful configuration update; for example, you can use **Consul Template**. NGINX Plus supports **additional dynamic reconfiguration mechanisms** – it can pull information about service instances from the registry using DNS, and it provides an API for remote reconfiguration.