This is the primary approach used by Netflix to deploy its video streaming service. Netflix packages each of its services as an EC2 AMI using **Aminator**. Each running service instance is an EC2 instance.

There are a variety tools that you can use to build your own VMs. You can configure your continuous integration (CI) server (for example, **Jenkins**) to invoke Aminator to package your services as an EC2 AMI. **Packer** is another option for automated VM image creation. Unlike Aminator, it supports a variety of virtualization technologies including EC2, DigitalOcean, VirtualBox, and VMware.

The company **Boxfuse** has a compelling way to build VM images, which overcomes the drawbacks of VMs that I describe below. Boxfuse packages your Java application as a minimal VM image. These images are fast to build, boot quickly, and are more secure since they expose a limited attack surface.

The company **CloudNative** has the Bakery, a SaaS offering for creating EC2 AMIs. You can configure your CI server to invoke the Bakery after the tests for your microservice pass. The Bakery then packages your service as an AMI. Using a SaaS offering such as the Bakery means that you don't have to waste valuable time setting up the AMI creation infrastructure.

The Service Instance per Virtual Machine pattern has a number of benefits. A major benefit of VMs is that each service instance runs in complete isolation. It has a fixed amount of CPU and memory and can't steal resources from other services.

Another benefit of deploying your microservices as VMs is that you can leverage mature cloud infrastructure. Clouds such as AWS provide useful features such as load balancing and autoscaling.

Another great benefit of deploying your service as a VM is that it encapsulates your service's implementation technology. Once a service has been packaged as a VM it becomes a black box. The VM's management API becomes the API for deploying the service. Deployment becomes much simpler and more reliable.

The Service Instance per Virtual Machine pattern has some drawbacks, however. One drawback is less efficient resource utilization. Each service instance has the overhead of an entire VM, including the operating system. Moreover, in a typical public IaaS, VMs come in fixed sizes and it is possible that the VM will be underutilized.

Moreover, a public IaaS typically charges for VMs regardless of whether they are busy or idle. An IaaS such as AWS provides autoscaling, but it is **difficult to react quickly to changes in demand**. Consequently, you often have to overprovision VMs, which increases the cost of deployment.

Another downside of this approach is that deploying a new version of a service is usually slow. VM images are typically slow to build due to their size. Also, VMs are typically slow to instantiate, again because of their size. Also, an operating system typically takes some time to start up. Note, however, that this is not universally true, since lightweight VMs such as those built by Boxfuse exist.