## Service Discovery

The API Gateway needs to know the location (IP address and port) of each microservice with which it communicates. In a traditional application, you could probably hardwire the locations, but in a modern, cloud-based microservices application, finding the needed locations is a non-trivial problem.

Infrastructure services, such as a message broker, will usually have a static location, which can be specified via OS environment variables. However, determining the location of an application service is not so easy.

Application services have dynamically assigned locations. Also, the set of instances of a service changes dynamically because of autoscaling and upgrades. Consequently, the API Gateway, like any other service client in the system, needs to use the system's service discovery mechanism: either **server-side discovery** or **client-side discovery**. Chapter 4 describes service discovery in more detail. For now, it is worthwhile to note that if the system uses client-side discovery, then the API Gateway must be able to query the **service registry**, which is a database of all microservice instances and their locations.

## Handling Partial Failures

Another issue you have to address when implementing an API Gateway is the problem of partial failure. This issue arises in all distributed systems whenever one service calls another service that is either responding slowly or is unavailable. The API Gateway should never block indefinitely waiting for a downstream service. However, how it handles the failure depends on the specific scenario and which service is failing. For example, if the recommendation service is unresponsive in the product details scenario, the API Gateway should return the rest of the product details to the client since they are still useful to the user. The recommendations could either be empty or replaced by, for example, a hardwired top ten list. If, however, the product information service is unresponsive, then the API Gateway should return an error to the client.

The API Gateway could also return cached data if that is available. For example, since product prices change infrequently, the API Gateway could return cached pricing data if the pricing service is unavailable. The data can be cached by the API Gateway itself or be stored in an external cache, such as Redis or Memcached. By returning either default data or cached data, the API Gateway ensures that system failures minimally impact the user experience.

**Netflix Hystrix** is an incredibly useful library for writing code that invokes remote services. Hystrix times out calls that exceed the specified threshold. It implements a **circuit breaker** pattern, which stops the client from waiting needlessly for an unresponsive service. If the error rate for a service exceeds a specified threshold, Hystrix trips the circuit breaker and all requests will fail immediately for a specified period of time. Hystrix lets you define a fallback action when a request fails, such as reading from a cache or returning a default value. If you are using the JVM you should definitely consider using Hystrix. And, if you are running in a non-JVM environment, you should use an equivalent library.