# Microservices in Action: NGINX Flexibility
by Floyd Smith

In a microservices environment, your backend infrastructure is likely to be constantly changing as services are created, deployed, and scaled up and down as a result of autoscaling, failures, and upgrades. As described in this chapter, a service discovery mechanism is required in environments where service locations are dynamically reassigned.

Part of the benefit of using NGINX for microservices is that you can easily configure it to automatically react to changes in backend infrastructure. NGINX configuration is not only easy and flexible, it's also compatible with the use of templates, as used in Amazon Web Services, making it easier to manage changes for a specific service and to manage changing sets of services subject to load balancing.

**NGINX Plus** features an **on-the-fly reconfiguration API**, eliminating the need to restart NGINX Plus or manually reload its configuration to get it to recognize changes to the set of services being load balanced. In **NGINX Plus Release 8 and later**, the changes you make with the API can be configured to persist across restarts and configuration reloads. (Reloads do not require a restart and do not drop connections.) And **NGINX Plus Release 9 and later** have support for service discovery using DNS SRV records, enabling tighter integration with existing server discovery platforms, such as Consul and etcd.

We here at NGINX have created a model for managing service discovery:

1. Run separate Docker containers for each of several apps, including a service discovery app such as etcd, a service registration tool, one or more backend servers, and NGINX Plus itself to load balance the other containers.
2. The registration tool monitors Docker for new containers and registers new services with the service discovery tool, also removing containers that disappear.
3. Containers and the services they run are automatically added to or removed from the group of load-balanced upstream servers.

Demo apps for this process are available for several service-discovery apps: **Consul APIs**, **DNS SRV records from Consul, etcd**, and **ZooKeeper**.