# Microservices in Action: Taming a Monolith with NGINX
by Floyd Smith

As this chapter describes, converting a monolith to microservices is likely to be a slow and challenging process, yet one with many benefits. With NGINX, you can begin to get some of the benefits of microservices before you actually begin the conversion process.

You can buy a lot of time for the move to microservices by “dropping NGINX in front of” your existing monolithic application. Here’s a brief description of the benefits as they relate to microservices:

- **Better support for microservices** – As mentioned in the sidebar for Chapter 5, NGINX, and NGINX Plus in particular, have capabilities that help enable the development of microservices-based apps. As you begin to re-design your monolithic application, your microservices will perform better and be easier to manage due to the capabilities in NGINX.

- **Functional abstraction across environments** – Moving capabilities onto NGINX as a reverse proxy server reduces the number of things that will vary when you deploy across new environments, from servers you manage to various flavors of public, private, and hybrid clouds. This complements and extends the flexibility inherent to microservices.

- **Availability of the NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture** – As you move to NGINX, you can borrow from the [NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture](https://www.nginx.com/resources/architectures/microservices/), both to define the ultimate structure of your app after the move to microservices, and to use parts of the MRA as needed for each new microservice you create.

To sum up, implementing NGINX as a first step in your transition takes the pressure off your monolithic application, makes it much easier to attain all of the benefits of microservices, and gives you models for use in making the transition. You can learn more about the MRA and get a [free trial of NGINX Plus](https://www.nginx.com/products/nginx-plus/) today.