Netflix achieves high availability by running one or more Eureka servers in each Amazon EC2 availability zone. Each Eureka server runs on an EC2 instance that has an Elastic IP address. DNS TEXT records are used to store the Eureka cluster configuration, which is a map from availability zones to a list of the network locations of Eureka servers. When a Eureka server starts up, it queries DNS to retrieve the Eureka cluster configuration, locates its peers, and assigns itself an unused Elastic IP address.

Eureka clients – services and service clients – query DNS to discover the network locations of Eureka servers. Clients prefer to use a Eureka server in the same availability zone. However, if none is available, the client uses a Eureka server in another availability zone.

Other examples of service registries include:

- etcd – A highly available, distributed, consistent, key-value store that is used for shared configuration and service discovery. Two notable projects that use etcd are Kubernetes and Cloud Foundry.
- Consul – A tool for discovering and configuring services. It provides an API that allows clients to register and discover services. Consul can perform health checks to determine service availability.
- Apache ZooKeeper – A widely used, high-performance coordination service for distributed applications. Apache ZooKeeper was originally a subproject of Hadoop, but is now a separate, top-level project.

Also, as noted previously, some systems such as Kubernetes, Marathon, and AWS do not have an explicit service registry. Instead, the service registry is just a built-in part of the infrastructure.

Now that we have looked at the concept of a service registry, let’s look at how service instances are registered with the service registry.

## Service Registration Options

As previously mentioned, service instances must be registered with and unregistered from the service registry. There are a couple of different ways to handle the registration and unregistration. One option is for service instances to register themselves, the self-registration pattern. The other option is for some other system component to manage the registration of service instances, the third-party registration pattern. Let’s first look at the self-registration pattern.

## The Self-Registration Pattern

When using the self-registration pattern, a service instance is responsible for registering and unregistering itself with the service registry. Also, if required, a service instance sends heartbeat requests to prevent its registration from expiring.