There are many messaging systems to choose from. You should pick one that supports a variety of programming languages.

Some messaging systems support standard protocols such as AMQP and STOMP. Other messaging systems have proprietary but documented protocols.

There are a large number of open source messaging systems to choose from, including RabbitMQ, Apache Kafka, Apache ActiveMQ, and NSQ. At a high level, they all support some form of messages and channels. They all strive to be reliable, high-performance, and scalable. However, there are significant differences in the details of each broker's messaging model.

There are many advantages to using messaging:

- Decouples the client from the service – A client makes a request simply by sending a message to the appropriate channel. The client is completely unaware of the service instances. It does not need to use a discovery mechanism to determine the location of a service instance.

- Message buffering – With a synchronous request/response protocol, such as HTTP, both the client and service must be available for the duration of the exchange. In contrast, a message broker queues up the messages written to a channel until the consumer can process them. This means, for example, that an online store can accept orders from customers even when the order fulfillment system is slow or unavailable. The order messages simply queue up.

- Flexible client-service interactions – Messaging supports all of the interaction styles described earlier.

- Explicit inter-process communication – RPC-based mechanisms attempt to make invoking a remote service look the same as calling a local service. However, because of the laws of physics and the possibility of partial failure, they are in fact quite different. Messaging makes these differences very explicit so developers are not lulled into a false sense of security.

There are, however, some downsides to using messaging:

- Additional operational complexity – The messaging system is yet another system component that must be installed, configured, and operated. It’s essential that the message broker be highly available, otherwise system reliability is impacted.

- Complexity of implementing request/response-based interaction – Request/response-style interaction requires some work to implement. Each request message must contain a reply channel identifier and a correlation identifier. The service writes a response message containing the correlation ID to the reply channel. The client uses the correlation ID to match the response with the request. It is often easier to use an IPC mechanism that directly supports request/response.

Now that we have looked at using messaging-based IPC, let’s examine request/response-based IPC.