A client makes requests (HTTP or TCP) via the ELB using its DNS name. The ELB load balances the traffic among a set of registered Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) instances or EC2 Container Service (ECS) containers. There isn't a separately visible service registry. Instead, EC2 instances and ECS containers are registered with the ELB itself.

HTTP servers and load balancers such as **NGINX Plus** and NGINX can also be used as a server-side discovery load balancer. For example, this blog post describes using Consul Template to dynamically reconfigure NGINX reverse proxying. **Consul Template** is a tool that periodically regenerates arbitrary configuration files from configuration data stored in the **Consul service registry**. It runs an arbitrary shell command whenever the files change. In the example described in the blog post, Consul Template generates an `nginx.conf` file, which configures the reverse proxying, and then runs a command that tells NGINX to reload the configuration. A more sophisticated implementation could dynamically reconfigure NGINX Plus using either its HTTP API or DNS.

Some deployment environments such as **Kubernetes** and **Marathon** run a proxy on each host in the cluster. The proxy plays the role of a server-side discovery load balancer. In order to make a request to a service, a client routes the request via the proxy using the host's IP address and the service's assigned port. The proxy then transparently forwards the request to an available service instance running somewhere in the cluster.

The server-side discovery pattern has several benefits and drawbacks. One great benefit of this pattern is that details of discovery are abstracted away from the client. Clients simply make requests to the load balancer. This eliminates the need to implement discovery logic for each programming language and framework used by your service clients. Also, as mentioned above, some deployment environments provide this functionality for free. This pattern also has some drawbacks, however. Unless the load balancer is provided by the deployment environment, it is yet another highly available system component that you need to set up and manage.

## The Service Registry

The **service registry** is a key part of service discovery. It is a database containing the network locations of service instances. A service registry needs to be highly available and up to date. Clients can cache network locations obtained from the service registry. However, that information eventually becomes out of date and clients become unable to discover service instances. Consequently, a service registry consists of a cluster of servers that use a replication protocol to maintain consistency.

As mentioned earlier, **Netflix Eureka** is good example of a service registry. It provides a REST API for registering and querying service instances. A service instance registers its network location using a POST request. Every 30 seconds it must refresh its registration using a PUT request. A registration is removed by either using an HTTP DELETE request or by the instance registration timing out. As you might expect, a client can retrieve the registered service instances by using an HTTP GET request.