A good approach to follow is the one described by Netflix. The strategies for dealing with partial failures include:

- Network timeouts – Never block indefinitely and always use timeouts when waiting for a response. Using timeouts ensures that resources are never tied up indefinitely.
- Limiting the number of outstanding requests – Impose an upper bound on the number of outstanding requests that a client can have with a particular service. If the limit has been reached, it is probably pointless to make additional requests, and those attempts need to fail immediately.
- Circuit breaker pattern – Track the number of successful and failed requests. If the error rate exceeds a configured threshold, trip the circuit breaker so that further attempts fail immediately. If a large number of requests are failing, that suggests the service is unavailable and that sending requests is pointless. After a timeout period, the client should try again and, if successful, close the circuit breaker.
- Provide fallbacks – Perform fallback logic when a request fails. For example, return cached data or a default value, such as an empty set of recommendations.

Netflix Hystrix is an open source library that implements these and other patterns. If you are using the JVM you should definitely consider using Hystrix. And, if you are running in a non-JVM environment, you should use an equivalent library.

## IPC Technologies

There are lots of different IPC technologies to choose from. Services can use synchronous request/response-based communication mechanisms such as HTTP-based REST or Thrift. Alternatively, they can use asynchronous, message-based communication mechanisms such as AMQP or STOMP.

There are also a variety of different message formats. Services can use human readable, text-based formats such as JSON or XML. Alternatively, they can use a binary format (which is more efficient) such as Avro or Protocol Buffers. Later on we will look at synchronous IPC mechanisms, but first let’s discuss asynchronous IPC mechanisms.

## Asynchronous, Message-Based Communication

When using messaging, processes communicate by asynchronously exchanging messages. A client makes a request to a service by sending it a message. If the service is expected to reply, it does so by sending a separate message back to the client. Since the communication is asynchronous, the client does not block waiting for a reply. Instead, the client is written assuming that the reply will not be received immediately.