Once you implement the coarse-grained interface, you then turn the module into a free-standing service. To do that, you must write code to enable the monolith and the service to communicate through an API that uses an *inter-process communication* (IPC) mechanism. Figure 7-3 shows the architecture before, during, and after the refactoring.

In this example, Module Z is the candidate module to extract. Its components are used by Module X and it uses Module Y. The first refactoring step is to define a pair of coarse-grained APIs. The first interface is an inbound interface that is used by Module X to invoke Module Z. The second is an outbound interface used by Module Z to invoke Module Y.

The second refactoring step turns the module into a standalone service. The inbound and outbound interfaces are implemented by code that uses an IPC mechanism. You will most likely need to build the service by combining Module Z with a *Microservice Chassis framework* that handles cross-cutting concerns such as service discovery.

Once you have extracted a module, you have yet another service that can be developed, deployed, and scaled independently of the monolith and any other services. You can even rewrite the service from scratch; in this case, the API code that integrates the service with the monolith becomes an anti-corruption layer that translates between the two domain models. Each time you extract a service, you take another step in the direction of microservices. Over time, the monolith will shrink and you will have an increasing number of microservices.

## Summary

The process of migrating an existing application into microservices is a form of application modernization. You should not move to microservices by rewriting your application from scratch. Instead, you should incrementally refactor your application into a set of microservices. There are three strategies you can use: implementing new functionality as microservices; splitting the presentation components from the business and data access components; and converting existing modules in the monolith into services. Over time the number of microservices will grow, and the agility and velocity of your development team will increase.