or JBoss Undertow. One popular non-JVM option is Node.js, which is a platform built on Chrome's JavaScript engine. Another option is to use NGINX Plus.

**NGINX Plus** offers a mature, scalable, high-performance web server and reverse proxy that is easily deployed, configured, and programmed. NGINX Plus can manage authentication, access control, load balancing requests, caching responses, and provides application-aware health checks and monitoring.

## Using a Reactive Programming Model

The API Gateway handles some requests by simply routing them to the appropriate backend service. It handles other requests by invoking multiple backend services and aggregating the results. With some requests, such as a product details request, the requests to backend services are independent of one another. In order to minimize response time, the API Gateway should perform independent requests concurrently.

Sometimes, however, there are dependencies between requests. The API Gateway might first need to validate the request by calling an authentication service before routing the request to a backend service. Similarly, to fetch information about the products in a customer's wish list, the API Gateway must first retrieve the customer's profile containing that information, and then retrieve the information for each product. Another interesting example of API composition is the **Netflix Video Grid**.

Writing API composition code using the traditional asynchronous callback approach quickly leads you to callback hell. The code will be tangled, difficult to understand, and error-prone. A much better approach is to write API Gateway code in a declarative style using a reactive approach. Examples of reactive abstractions include **Future** in Scala, **CompletableFuture** in Java 8, and **Promise** in JavaScript. There is also **Reactive Extensions** (also called Rx or ReactiveX), which was originally developed by Microsoft for the .NET platform. Netflix created RxJava for the JVM specifically to use in their API Gateway. There is also RxJS for JavaScript, which runs in both the browser and Node.js. Using a reactive approach will enable you to write simple yet efficient API Gateway code.

## Service Invocation

A microservices-based application is a distributed system and must use an inter-process communication mechanism. There are two styles of inter-process communication. One option is to use an asynchronous, messaging-based mechanism. Some implementations use a message broker such as JMS or AMQP. Others, such as Zeromq, are brokerless and the services communicate directly.

The other style of inter-process communication is a synchronous mechanism such as HTTP or Thrift. A system will typically use both asynchronous and synchronous styles. It might even use multiple implementations of each style. Consequently, the API Gateway will need to support a variety of communication mechanisms.