# Summary

In a microservices architecture, each microservice has its own private datastore. Different microservices might use different SQL and NoSQL databases. While this database architecture has significant benefits, it creates some distributed data management challenges. The first challenge is how to implement business transactions that maintain consistency across multiple services. The second challenge is how to implement queries that retrieve data from multiple services.

For many applications, the solution is to use an event-driven architecture. One challenge with implementing an event-driven architecture is how to atomically update state and how to publish events. There are a few ways to accomplish this, including using the database as a message queue, transaction log mining, and event sourcing.

## Microservices in Action: NGINX and Storage Optimization

by Floyd Smith

A microservices-based approach to storage involves a greater number and variety of data stores, more complexity in how you access and update data, and greater challenges for both Dev and Ops in maintaining data consistency. NGINX provides crucial support for this kind of data management, in three main areas:

1. **Caching and microcaching of data** – Caching static files and microcaching application-generated content with NGINX reduces the load on your application, increasing performance and reducing the potential for problems.

2. **Flexibility and scalability per data store** – Once you implement NGINX as a reverse proxy server, your apps gain great flexibility in creating, sizing, running, and resizing data storage servers to meet changing requirements – vital when every service has its own data store.

3. **Monitoring and management of services, including data services** – With the number of data servers multiplying, supporting complex operations is critical, as are monitoring and management tools. NGINX Plus has built-in tools and interfaces to application performance management partners such as Data Dog, Dynatrace, and New Relic.

Examples of microservice-specific data management are included in the three Models of the NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture, giving you a starting point for your own design decisions and implementation.