# Strategy #3 – Extract Services

The third refactoring strategy is to turn existing modules within the monolith into standalone microservices. Each time you extract a module and turn it into a service, the monolith shrinks. Once you have converted enough modules, the monolith will cease to be a problem. Either it disappears entirely or it becomes small enough that it is just another service.

## Prioritizing Which Modules to Convert into Services

A large, complex monolithic application consists of tens or hundreds of modules, all of which are candidates for extraction. Figuring out which modules to convert first is often challenging. A good approach is to start with a few modules that are easy to extract. This will give you experience with microservices in general and the extraction process in particular. After that, you should extract those modules that will give you the greatest benefit.

Converting a module into a service is typically time consuming. You want to rank modules by the benefit you will receive. It is usually beneficial to extract modules that change frequently. Once you have converted a module into a service, you can develop and deploy it independently of the monolith, which will accelerate development.

It is also beneficial to extract modules that have resource requirements significantly different from those of the rest of the monolith. It is useful, for example, to turn a module that has an in-memory database into a service, which can then be deployed on hosts, whether bare metal servers, VMs, or cloud instances, with large amounts of memory. Similarly, it can be worthwhile to extract modules that implement computationally expensive algorithms, since the service can then be deployed on hosts with lots of CPUs. By turning modules with particular resource requirements into services, you can make your application much easier and less expensive to scale.

When figuring out which modules to extract, it is useful to look for existing coarse-grained boundaries (a.k.a. seams). They make it easier and cheaper to turn modules into services. An example of such a boundary is a module that only communicates with the rest of the application via asynchronous messages. It can be relatively cheap and easy to turn that module into a microservice.

## How to Extract a Module

The first step of extracting a module is to define a coarse-grained interface between the module and the monolith. It is mostly likely a bidirectional API, since the monolith will need data owned by the service and vice versa. It is often challenging to implement such an API because of the tangled dependencies and fine-grained interaction patterns between the module and the rest of the application. Business logic implemented using the **Domain Model pattern** is especially challenging to refactor because of numerous associations between domain model classes. You will often need to make significant code changes to break these dependencies. Figure 7-3 shows the refactoring.