# Summary

For most microservices-based applications, it makes sense to implement an API Gateway, which acts as a single entry point into a system. The API Gateway is responsible for request routing, composition, and protocol translation. It provides each of the application’s clients with a custom API. The API Gateway can also mask failures in the backend services by returning cached or default data. In the next chapter, we will look at communication between services.

## Microservices in Action: NGINX Plus as an API Gateway

by Floyd Smith

This chapter discusses how an API Gateway serves as a single entry point into a system. And it can handle other functions such as load balancing, caching, monitoring, protocol translation, and others – while NGINX, when implemented as a reverse proxy server, functions as a single entry point into a system and supports all the additional functions mentioned for an API Gateway. So using NGINX as the host for an API Gateway can work very well indeed.

Thinking of NGINX as an API Gateway is not an idea that’s original to this ebook. NGINX Plus is a leading platform for managing and securing HTTP-based API traffic. You can implement your own API Gateway or use an existing API management platform, many of which leverage NGINX.

Reasons for using NGINX Plus as an API Gateway include:

- **Access management** – You can use a variety of access control list (ACL) methods and easily implement SSL/TLS, either at the web application level as is typical, or also down to the level of each individual microservice.

- **Manageability and resilience** – You can update your NGINX Plus-based API server without downtime, using the NGINX dynamic reconfiguration API, a Lua module, Perl, live restarts without downtime, or changes driven by Chef, Puppet, ZooKeeper, or DNS.

- **Integration with third-party tools** – NGINX Plus is already integrated with leading-edge tools such as 3scale, Kong, and the MuleSoft integration platform (to mention only tools described on the NGINX website.)

NGINX Plus is used extensively as an API Gateway in the NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture. Use the articles assembled here and, when publicly available, the MRA, for examples of how to implement this in your own applications.

Microservices – From Design to Deployment 20 Ch. 2 – Using an API Gateway