The passenger’s smartphone requests a trip by making a POST request to the /trips
resource of the Trip Management service. This service handles the request by sending a
GET request for information about the passenger to the Passenger Management service.
After verifying that the passenger is authorized to create a trip, the Trip Management
service creates the trip and returns a 201 response to the smartphone.

Many developers claim their HTTP-based APIs are RESTful. However, as Fielding describes
in this blog post, not all of them actually are.

Leonard Richardson (no relation) defines a very useful maturity model for REST that
consists of the following levels:

- Level 0 – Clients of a level 0 API invoke the service by making HTTP POST requests to
its sole URL endpoint. Each request specifies the action to perform, the target of the
action (for example, the business object), and any parameters.

- Level 1 – A level 1 API supports the idea of resources. To perform an action on a
resource, a client makes a POST request that specifies the action to perform and
any parameters.

- Level 2 – A level 2 API uses HTTP verbs to perform actions: GET to retrieve, POST to
create, and PUT to update. The request query parameters and body, if any, specify
the action’s parameters. This enables services to leverage web infrastructure such
as caching for GET requests.

- Level 3 – The design of a level 3 API is based on the terribly named principle, HATEOAS
(Hypertext As The Engine Of Application State). The basic idea is that the representation
of a resource returned by a GET request contains links for performing the allowable
actions on that resource. For example, a client can cancel an order using a link in the
Order representation returned in response to the GET request sent to retrieve the order.

One of the benefits of HATEOAS is include no longer having to hardwire URLs into
client code. Another benefit is that because the representation of a resource contains
links for the allowable actions, the client doesn’t have to guess what actions can be
performed on a resource in its current state.

There are numerous benefits to using a protocol that is based on HTTP:

- HTTP is simple and familiar.

- You can test an HTTP API from within a browser using an extension such as Postman,
or from the command line using curl (assuming JSON or some other text format
is used).

- It directly supports request/response-style communication.

- HTTP is, of course, firewall-friendly.

- It doesn’t require an intermediate broker, which simplifies the system’s architecture.