In this ebook, we've converted each blog post to a book chapter, and added a sidebar to each chapter with information relevant to implementing microservices in NGINX. If you follow the advice herein carefully, you'll solve many potential development problems before you even start writing code. This book is also a good companion to the NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture, which implements much of the theory presented here.

The book chapters are:

1. Introduction to Microservices – A clear and simple introduction to microservices, from its perhaps overhyped conceptual definition to the reality of how microservices are deployed in creating and maintaining applications.

2. Using an API Gateway – An API Gateway is the single point of entry for your entire microservices-based application, presenting the API for each microservice. NGINX Plus can effectively be used as an API Gateway with load balancing, static file caching, and more.

3. Inter-process Communication in a Microservices Architecture – Once you break a monolithic application into separate pieces – microservices – the pieces need to speak to each other. And it turns out that you have many options for inter-process communication, including representational state transfer (REST). This chapter gives the details.

4. Service Discovery in a Microservices Architecture – When services are running in a dynamic environment, finding them when you need them is not a trivial issue. In this chapter, Chris describes a practical solution to this problem.

5. Event-Driven Data Management for Microservices – Instead of sharing a unified application-wide data store (or two) across a monolithic application, each microservice maintains its own unique data representation and storage. This gives you great flexibility, but can also cause complexity, and this chapter helps you sort through it.

6. Choosing a Microservices Deployment Strategy – In a DevOps world, how you do things is just as important as what you set out to do in the first place. Chris describes the major patterns for microservices deployment so you can make an informed choice for your own application.

7. Refactoring a Monolith into Microservices – In a perfect world, we would always get the time and money to convert core software into the latest and greatest technologies, tools, and approaches, with no real deadlines. But you may well find yourself converting a monolith into microservices, one... small... piece... at... a... time. Chris presents a strategy for doing this sensibly.

We think you'll find every chapter worthwhile, and we hope that you'll come back to this ebook as you develop your own microservices apps.

Floyd Smith
NGINX, Inc.