There are some drawbacks to using HTTP:

- HTTP only directly supports the request/response style of interaction. You can use HTTP for notifications but the server must always send an HTTP response.
- Because the client and service communicate directly (without an intermediary to buffer messages), they must both be running for the duration of the exchange.
- The client must know the location (that is, the URL) of each service instance. As described in Chapter 2 about the API Gateway, this is a non-trivial problem in a modern application. Clients must use a service discovery mechanism to locate service instances.

The developer community has recently rediscovered the value of an interface definition language for RESTful APIs. There are a few options, including RAML and Swagger. Some IDLs, such as Swagger, allow you to define the format of request and response messages. Others, such as RAML, require you to use a separate specification such as JSON Schema. As well as describing APIs, IDLs typically have tools that generate client stubs and server skeletons from an interface definition.

## Thrift

Apache Thrift is an interesting alternative to REST. It is a framework for writing cross-language RPC clients and servers. Thrift provides a C-style IDL for defining your APIs. You use the Thrift compiler to generate client-side stubs and server-side skeletons. The compiler generates code for a variety of languages including C++, Java, Python, PHP, Ruby, Erlang, and Node.js.

A Thrift interface consists of one or more services. A service definition is analogous to a Java interface. It is a collection of strongly typed methods.

Thrift methods can either return a (possibly void) value or, if they are defined as one-way, no value. Methods that return a value implement the request/response style of interaction; the client waits for a response and might throw an exception. One-way methods correspond to the notification style of interaction; the server does not send a response.

Thrift supports various message formats: JSON, binary, and compact binary. Binary is more efficient than JSON because it is faster to decode. And, as the name suggests, compact binary is a space-efficient format. JSON is, of course, human- and browser-friendly. Thrift also gives you a choice of transport protocols including raw TCP and HTTP. Raw TCP is likely to be more efficient than HTTP. However, HTTP is firewall-friendly, browser-friendly, and human-friendly.

## Message Formats

Now that we have looked at HTTP and Thrift, let's examine the issue of message formats. If you are using a messaging system or REST, you get to pick your message format. Other IPC mechanisms such as Thrift might support only a small number of message formats, or even just one. In either case, it's important to use a cross-language message