There are a couple of variants of this pattern. One variant is for each service instance to be a process or a process group. For example, you might deploy a Java service instance as a web application on an Apache Tomcat server. A Node.js service instance might consist of a parent process and one or more child processes.

The other variant of this pattern is to run multiple service instances in the same process or process group. For example, you could deploy multiple Java web applications on the same Apache Tomcat server or run multiple OSGI bundles in the same OSGI container.

The Multiple Service Instances per Host pattern has both benefits and drawbacks. One major benefit is its resource usage is relatively efficient. Multiple service instances share the server and its operating system. It's even more efficient if a process or group runs multiple service instances, for example, multiple web applications sharing the same Apache Tomcat server and JVM.

Another benefit of this pattern is that deploying a service instance is relatively fast. You simply copy the service to a host and start it. If the service is written in Java, you copy a JAR or WAR file. For other languages, such as Node.js or Ruby, you copy the source code. In either case, the number of bytes copied over the network is relatively small.

Also, because of the lack of overhead, starting a service is usually very fast. If the service is its own process, you simply start it. Otherwise, if the service is one of several instances running in the same container process or process group, you either dynamically deploy it into the container or restart the container.

Despite its appeal, the Multiple Service Instances per Host pattern has some significant drawbacks. One major drawback is that there is little or no isolation of the service instances, unless each service instance is a separate process. While you can accurately monitor each service instance's resource utilization, you cannot limit the resources each instance uses. It's possible for a misbehaving service instance to consume all of the memory or CPU of the host.

There is no isolation at all if multiple service instances run in the same process. All instances might, for example, share the same JVM heap. A misbehaving service instance could easily break the other services running in the same process. Moreover, you have no way to monitor the resources used by each service instance.

Another significant problem with this approach is that the operations team that deploys a service has to know the specific details of how to do it. Services can be written in a variety of languages and frameworks, so there are lots of details that the development team must share with operations. This complexity increases the risk of errors during deployment.

As you can see, despite its familiarity, the Multiple Service Instances per Host pattern has some significant drawbacks. Let's now look at other ways of deploying microservices that avoid these problems.