# Summary

Deploying a microservices application is challenging. You may have tens or even hundreds of services written in a variety of languages and frameworks. Each one is a mini-application with its own specific deployment, resource, scaling, and monitoring requirements. There are several microservice deployment patterns, including Service Instance per Virtual Machine and Service Instance per Container. Another intriguing option for deploying microservices is AWS Lambda, a serverless approach. In the next and final chapter of this ebook, we will look at how to migrate a monolithic application to a microservices architecture.

## Microservices in Action: Deploying Microservices Across Varying Hosts with NGINX

by Floyd Smith

NGINX has a lot of advantages for various types of deployment – whether for monolithic applications, microservices apps, or hybrid apps (as described in the next chapter). With NGINX, you can abstract intelligence out of different deployment environments and into NGINX. There are many app capabilities that work differently if you use tools that are specific to different deployment environments, but that work the same way across all environments if you use NGINX.

This characteristic also opens up a second specific advantage for NGINX and NGINX Plus: the ability to scale an app by running it in multiple deployment environments **at the same time**. Let’s say you have on-premise servers that you own and manage, but your app usage is growing and you anticipate spikes beyond what those servers can handle. Instead of buying, provisioning, and keeping additional servers warm “just in case”, if you’ve “gone NGINX”, you have a powerful alternative: scale into the cloud – for instance, **scale onto AWS**. That is, handle traffic on your on-premise servers until capacity is reached, then spin up additional microservice instances in the cloud as needed.

This is just one example of the flexibility that a move to NGINX makes possible. Maintaining separate testing and deployment environments, switching the infrastructure of your environments, and managing a portfolio of apps across all kinds of environments all become much more realistic and achievable.

The **NGINX Microservices Reference Architecture** is explicitly designed to support this kind of flexible deployment, with use of containers during development and deployment as an assumption. Consider a move to containers, if you’re not there already, and to NGINX or NGINX Plus to ease your move to microservices and to future-proof your apps, development and deployment flexibility, and personnel.