# Foreword

by Floyd Smith

The rise of microservices has been a remarkable advancement in application development and deployment. With microservices, an application is developed, or refactored, into separate services that "speak" to one another in a well-defined way – via APIs, for instance. Each microservice is self-contained, each maintains its own data store (which has significant implications), and each can be updated independently of others.

Moving to a microservices-based approach makes app development faster and easier to manage, requiring fewer people to implement more new features. Changes can be made and deployed faster and easier. An application designed as a collection of microservices is easier to run on multiple servers with load balancing, making it easy to handle demand spikes and steady increases in demand over time, while reducing downtime caused by hardware or software problems.

Microservices are a critical part of a number of significant advancements that are changing the nature of how we work. Agile software development techniques, moving applications to the cloud, DevOps culture, continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD), and the use of containers are all being used alongside microservices to revolutionize application development and delivery.

NGINX software is strongly associated with microservices and all of the technologies listed above. Whether deployed as a reverse proxy, or as a highly efficient web server, NGINX makes microservices-based application development easier and keeps microservices-based solutions running smoothly.

With the tie between NGINX and microservices being so strong, we’ve run a seven-part series on microservices on the NGINX website. Written by Chris Richardson, who has had early involvement with the concept and its implementation, the blog posts cover the major aspects of microservices for app design and development, including how to make the move from a monolithic application. The blog posts offer a thorough overview of major microservices issues and have been extremely popular.