An example of this approach is the open source **LinkedIn Databus** project. Databus mines the Oracle transaction log and publishes events corresponding to the changes. LinkedIn uses Databus to keep various derived data stores consistent with the system of record.

Another example is the **streams mechanism in AWS DynamoDB**, which is a managed NoSQL database. A DynamoDB stream contains the time-ordered sequence of changes (create, update, and delete operations) made to the items in a DynamoDB table in the last 24 hours. An application can read those changes from the stream and, for example, publish them as events.

Transaction log mining has various benefits and drawbacks. One benefit is that it guarantees that an event is published for each update without using 2PC. Transaction log mining can also simplify the application by separating event publishing from the application’s business logic. A major drawback is that the format of the transaction log is proprietary to each database and can even change between database versions. Also, it can be difficult to reverse engineer the high-level business events from the low-level updates recorded in the transaction log.

Transaction log mining eliminates the need for 2PC by having the application do one thing: update the database. Let’s now look at a different approach that eliminates the updates and relies solely on events.

## Using Event Sourcing

**Event sourcing** achieves atomicity without 2PC by using a radically different, event-centric approach to persisting business entities. Rather than store the current state of an entity, the application stores a sequence of state-changing events. The application reconstructs an entity’s current state by replaying the events. Whenever the state of a business entity changes, a new event is appended to the list of events. Since saving an event is a single operation, it is inherently atomic.

To see how event sourcing works, consider the Order entity as an example. In a traditional approach, each order maps to a row in an ORDER table and to rows in, for example, an ORDER_LINE_ITEM table.

But when using event sourcing, the Order Service stores an Order in the form of its state-changing events: Created, Approved, Shipped, Cancelled. Each event contains sufficient data to reconstruct the Order’s state.