6 Choosing a Microservices Deployment Strategy

This is the sixth chapter in this ebook about building applications with microservices. Chapter 1 introduces the Microservices Architecture pattern and discusses the benefits and drawbacks of using microservices. The following chapters discuss different aspects of the microservices architecture: using an API Gateway, inter-process communication, service discovery, and event-driven data management. In this chapter, we look at strategies for deploying microservices.

## Motivations

Deploying a monolithic application means running one or more identical copies of a single, usually large, application. You typically provision N servers (physical or virtual) and run M instances of the application on each server. The deployment of a monolithic application is not always entirely straightforward, but it is much simpler than deploying a microservices application.

A microservices application consists of tens or even hundreds of services. Services are written in a variety of languages and frameworks. Each one is a mini-application with its own specific deployment, resource, scaling, and monitoring requirements. For example, you need to run a certain number of instances of each service based on the demand for that service. Also, each service instance must be provided with the appropriate CPU, memory, and I/O resources. What is even more challenging is that despite this complexity, deploying services must be fast, reliable and cost-effective.